'Betrayed' by opera, this gender non-binary singer finds their own career path | CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More 'Betrayed' by opera, this gender non-binary singer finds their own career path | CBC Music Loaded Music 'Betrayed' by opera, this gender non-binary singer finds their own career path 'The more I tried to fit in with what opera wanted me to be, the more I lost myself,' says Teiya Kasahara in a new short film, Opera Trans*formed. Social Sharing 'The more I tried to fit in with what opera wanted me to be, the more I lost myself,' says Teiya Kasahara CBC Music · CBC Music · Posted: Oct 25, 2021 2:10 PM ET | Last Updated: October 25 "If I wasn't an opera singer, would I be a trans man?" Teiya Kasahara, a gender non-binary singer, asks that question partway through Opera Trans*formed, a new short film by Leah Borts-Kuperman and Maria Sarrouh, streaming above. It's a stop-and-think moment underlining the dilemma facing gender non-binary and trans singers working in a field whose roles are rigidly defined along gender lines: sopranos and mezzos are cast as women (so-called "trouser roles" aside); tenors and basses as men. In the film, Kasahara points to opera's Fach system, whereby operatic roles are classified according to particular voice types. "A certain gender expression or expectation becomes associated to those voice types," Kasahara points out, and few if any directors in major opera houses are willing to sidestep these traditions. For gender non-binary and trans people, to work within this system is to deny their true selves. "As I was beginning to step away from opera, I felt betrayed by it," Kasahara admits. "By the genre, by the works of art, by the way it used to make me feel." Point of ViewHow independent companies are saving opera Queer Pride InsideHigh above Toronto, soprano Teiya Kasahara performs an epic 'callout to the opera industry' So, instead, Kasahara co-founded Amplified Opera, a theatre company that they say aims to "make space for myself and other people like me, or other people who don't feel like they fit in within the industry." In January 2021, the Canadian Opera Company announced that Amplified Opera would be the first participant in its Disruptor in Residence program, a two-year residency that began in March with a panel discussion on gender and opera, with more projects to come. Opera Trans*formed was produced in association with CBC's Creator Network. Teiya Kasahara performs in a Buddies in Bad Times Theatre production of the opera Pomegranate in June 2019. (Dahlia Katz) Related Stories Does 'niche' Canadian music need its own video streaming platform? This TV and film music trend is here to convert you into a classical fan How Cheng² Duo rediscovered their purpose as classical musicians during the pandemic Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now