10 injured in 'significant' explosion at Vancouver Island military base | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More 10 injured in 'significant' explosion at Vancouver Island military base | CBC News Loaded British Columbia 10 injured in 'significant' explosion at Vancouver Island military base B.C. Emergency Health Services said six patients were treated at the base's medical unit, three were taken to hospital in stable condition, and one was was airlifted to hospital in serious condition. Military officials have yet to say what caused the explosion. Social Sharing 1 person airlifted to hospital in serious condition, B.C. Emergency Health Services says Bridgette Watson · CBC News · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 11:19 AM PT | Last Updated: 2 hours ago Emergency crews respond to an explosion at CFB Comox on Nov. 18. Acting Wing Commander Lt.-Col. Mike Juilliet said the blast occurred in an accommodation unit undergoing renovation. (Dean Stoltz/CHEK News) comments Emergency services say 10 people have been injured, one seriously, at Canadian Forces Base Comox in what the military described as a "significant" explosion. The blast happened around 9 a.m. PT in an unused barracks building, according to base spokesperson Capt. Brad Little. According to B.C. Emergency Health Services (BCEHS), several ambulances, including an air ambulance carrying a critical care team, were dispatched to the scene around 9:15 a.m. PT. In a statement to CBC, BCEHS said six patients were treated at the military base medical unit and three were taken to hospital in stable condition. One patient in serious condition was airlifted to hospital with the critical care team, said BCEHS, which manages the British Columbia Ambulance Service. My heart goes out to the personnel injured today in the gas explosion at 19 Wing Comox. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NEWS?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NEWS</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/19wingcomox?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#19wingcomox</a>&mdash;@olsson182 Military officials have yet to say what caused the explosion. Little said he was in his office across the street when the explosion happened and it was strong enough to cave in part of the office building's ceiling. He said the blast occurred some distance from where the base's aircraft are situated and there was no damage to aircraft or air field facilities. Acting Wing Commander Lt.-Col. Mike Juilliet said the explosion happened in an accommodations building that was under renovation, and the building is now heavily damaged. He said military officials will provide more details at a later briefing, but did not specify when that would be. "Our focus right now is on assisting our injured personnel," said Juilliet. First members of military contingent arrive in B.C. to assist with flood recovery With files from Liz McArthur CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia Photos Coping in the aftermath of the southern B.C. rainstorm Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part Could take weeks to begin repairing 'unprecedented' damage to B.C.'s road system, experts say Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now