11 pizzas that prove there's a slice for every situation | CBC Life Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch life CBC Life Shows Food Style Home Wellness Culture Work & Money Pets Giveaways & Submissions Video Travel More 11 pizzas that prove there's a slice for every situation | CBC Life Loaded Food 11 pizzas that prove there's a slice for every situation With endless crust, base and topping choices, pizza can and will satisfy your every whim. Social Sharing With endless crust, base and topping choices, pizza can and will satisfy your every whim Michelle Villagracia · CBC Life · Posted: Nov 10, 2021 11:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 10 comments (Photography, left: Adrian Harris and Jeremy Inglett; middle and right: David Bagosy) It's a scientific fact that pizza can cure all ailments [citation needed]. It's comfort food served by the slice, and with endless crust, base and topping options, pizza can and will satisfy your every whim. Which is why those choices matter — not any one pizza is right for all circumstances! Whether you have a specific "pizza personality," are seeking a hearty meal for dinner tonight or you're hosting game night, there's a pizza below that's just what you need. For the 'it must have meat' pizza types: These pizzas aren't for the faint of heart with their generous helpings of meat. Shahir's Bacon, Hot Pepper and Arugula Pizza Meat Lovers' Pizza (Photo: David Bagosy, Styling: Melissa Direnzo)   For the homebody: Fall flavours evoke feelings of comfort and cosiness for many of us. So what better food to curl up with at home than this vegetarian pizza that uses butternut squash instead of tomatoes for its sauce? Butternut Squash Pizza (Photo credit: Adrian Harris and Jeremy Inglett)   For the nonconformist: This is not your traditional pizza! Made from a batter rather than a dough and baked in a cast-iron skillet, this easy-to-make "pizza pancake" is a blast to eat. Savoury Margherita Dutch Baby (Photo: David Bagosy, Styling: Melissa Direnzo) This vegan option steps outside the box with barbecue "chicken" and a dairy-free ranch sauce. Liv's Totally Meatless BBQ 'Chicken' Pizza   For the host with the most: This large pizza is perfect for hosting a few guests, and will be a win with meat-eaters and vegetarians alike — it's as big on size as it is on flavour. Party Pizza with Fennel, Sun-dried Tomatoes and Olives (Photo: David Bagosy, Styling: Melissa Direnzo)   For the fan who needs a slice while they watch: Based on the favourite toppings of former Toronto Raptor Kyle Lowry and forever Toronto Raptor fan Drake, this sausage and Canadian bacon pizza with alfredo sauce is a worthy pie for game day. 'We The North' Alfredo, Sausage and Canadian Bacon Pizza What is game night without a little beer-braised onion and bacon on your pizza? Perfect for sharing! Hockey Night Pizza   For pizza date night: A little red wine and some smoked oysters. Better make this pizza for two. Drunk in Love Red Wine Mushroom and Smoked Oyster Pizza   For the Star Wars marathon movie night: Themed movie nights are so much fun, especially when your pizza shows up on-brand. Death Star Blue Cheese and Bacon Pizza   For the minimalist: There's nothing subtle about the amount of flavour sun-dried tomatoes pack, and if you want it to really shine through on your pizza, this recipe is for you. Steven's Sun-Dried Tomato Pizza   Bonus: It's always good to have a reliable pizza dough recipe in your back pocket. What you put on it depends on your mood. Shahir's Ultimate Pizza Dough Related Stories What to cook in November: Food you really really want to eat for the worst month of the year Lauren Toyota's vegan Ragu Bolognese is a hearty recipe to add to your fast pasta repertoire Quickled Pizza Mushrooms Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now