5 fun facts you may not know about football | Explore | Awesome Activities & Fun Facts | CBC Kids CBC Kids | Play Games, Watch Video, Explore Toggle navigation Menu Explore Videos Games explore,quiz-poll, Explore All 5 fun facts you may not know about football   James White of the New England Patriots runs a touchdown against the Philadelphia Eagles during Super Bowl 52 in 2018. (Patrick Smith/Getty Images) Do you like football? Then you might know that the National Football League (NFL) has an annual championship called the Super Bowl. It's played at the end of January or beginning of February and it's always on a Sunday. Thanks, Canada! Football games like this one from 1949 have Canada to thank for how they play the game. (Keystone/Getty Images) You can thank Canada for some of football's rules. During a match in 1874 between Harvard University and McGill University, the Harvard players decided they like the Canadian rugby-style rules more than their rugby-soccer mix. A year later, they integrated things like tackles and an oval ball into their American game. Get in shape A leather football from 1932. Why is a football such an odd shape? The first footballs were made from inflated pig's bladders, which look kind of like the oval shape of a football. Later on, they made them out of cowhide or rubber, giving the football the shape we know today — a long oval easy to grip and throw. It's about teamwork The NFL logo is painted right onto the football field at the 2005 Super Bowl. (Tom Hauck/Getty Images) The NFL formed in 1920 and started off with 10 teams. Today, there are 32 teams in the league, all American. Canada has its own league called the Canadian Football League (CFL). Hair or helmets (Darren Hauck/Getty Images) Players in the NFL were not required to wear a helmet on the field until 1943. Before this, players often grew long hair because they thought this would protect their head. The trophy (Ronald Martinez/Getty Images) The Vince Lombardi trophy, which is named after an NFL coach, is awarded to the winning team of the Super Bowl. A new silver trophy is made each year and takes about four months to create.               More cool posts! Sports Dogs Gallery These little pups are totally into football! Football Facts Super Bowl Sunday: 7 fun facts and football terms to know! Olympics Quiz Olympic Games Sports Quiz Today's Top 3 3 super sporty things | CBC Parents TV Schedule Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Other Policies Sitemap Copyright © CBC 2021