A wet and windy storm is expected this week. Here's what you need to know | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More A wet and windy storm is expected this week. Here's what you need to know | CBC News Loaded PEI A wet and windy storm is expected this week. Here's what you need to know A special weather statement for Prince Edward Island warns a storm will bring heavy rain and strong winds from Monday through Wednesday. Social Sharing As much as 40-70 mm of rainfall expected, with wind gusts over 90 km/h CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 11:36 AM AT | Last Updated: 2 hours ago Rainfall and severe winds warnings in place for Prince Edward Island from Monday through Wednesday, and possibly beyond. (Brian Higgins/CBC) comments A  storm will bring both heavy rain and strong winds to Prince Edward Island from Monday through Wednesday, Environment Canada said Sunday in a special weather statement.  As much as 40 to 70 millimetres of rain is expected to fall during that period, with wind speeds expected to top 90 km/h. The statement says there is also a possibility that the storm may last beyond Wednesday.  "An intensifying low pressure system will slowly move into the Maritimes on Monday. This system will then stall and give an extended period of rain and strong winds on Monday night and Tuesday," the statement said.  SPECIAL WEATHER STATEMENT remains in effect for all 3 counties. 40-70+ mm of rain with strong wind possible MON-WED. Heaviest rain and strongest wind (southerly 70-90+ km/h) likely late Monday into Tuesday. Ensure downspouts and storm drains are clear and secure outdoor objects. <a href="https://t.co/BgF6vXigO3">pic.twitter.com/BgF6vXigO3</a>&mdash;@JayScotland In a statement issued Sunday morning, Environment Canada said it is too early to tell which parts fo the Island will bear the heaviest rainfall. "There is the potential for localized flooding and water pooling on roadways in any region, and travellers should expect to encounter adverse driving conditions," it said.  CBC meteorologist Jay Scotland said Islanders should prepare for a variety of impacts.  "While P.E.I. may avoid the most significant rain from this storm system, local flooding is still possible in addition to potential outages," Scotland said Sunday in a Facebook post. Islanders should use the weekend to prepare for the storm week ahead, Scotland said. "Today is a great day to secure or store loose objects around your home, and to check that downspouts and storm drains are clear of leaves and debris. If you have a sump pump, it is also a good idea to make sure that it is plugged in and working," he said.  "The heaviest rain is most likely to fall over eastern areas and higher rainfall amounts are possible if this approaching plume of moisture stalls further west than anticipated. The next few days will not only be wet but also quite windy." How to prepare The nature of the forecast — including high winds — means that tried-and-true pre-storm tactics should be considered.  Stock up on essential needs, such as food and water, prior to the storm. Non-essential outdoor activities and chores should be done prior to the storm as well. Windows, garages and other indoor openings should be sealed prior to and during the storm.  Sustained winds may affect power lines and cause outages. Charge up electronic devices, including mobile phones.  with files from Jay Scotland CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now