About CBCSports.ca | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More About CBCSports.ca | CBC Sports Loaded Sports About CBCSports.ca Information about CBCSports.ca, how we operate and how to contact us. Social Sharing CBC Sports · Posted: Apr 30, 2019 2:35 PM ET | Last Updated: November 19 WHO WE ARE CBCSports.ca follows Canadian athletes from playground to podium, and is world-renowned for its coverage of high-performance sport. It is recognized as a leader in Olympic Games coverage and of sports production above and beyond the Games themselves. Extensive coverage of national and world championships in a myriad of other sports have garnered CBCSports.ca a reputation as the destination for the sport enthusiast. STAFF AND DIVERSITY CBC Sports offers accurate, up-to-the-minute sports news and a full complement of live scores, stats and standings, as well as analysis and background information on current sports issues affecting Canadians at home and abroad. The journalists at CBC Sports draw upon the full resources of the CBC. Source material includes following live games and news conferences, the wire services (The Canadian Press, The Associated Press, Sports Network), material from CBC Radio and Television reporters working across Canada and around the world, and most importantly, the online journalists' own research. Read more about diversity and inclusion at CBC JOURNALISTIC STANDARDS In a world where the line of what constitutes journalism appears to be increasingly blurred, CBC/Radio-Canada holds itself to the highest standards of journalistic practices. All employees of CBC Sports, as well as the content they create, must respect the principles of accuracy, fairness, balance, impartiality and integrity as expressed through the Journalistic Standards and Practices. Explore CBC News Journalistic Standards and Practices We are aware of the impact of our work and are honest with our audiences. We do not hesitate to correct any mistake when necessary nor to follow up a story when a situation changes significantly. We do not plagiarize. The office of the ombudsperson reviews our practices against the standards set out in our Journalistic Standards and Practices. We openly provide the public with the means to judge and hold us to account by sharing with it how we measure the quality and standards of our journalism. If you wish to make a complaint or raise a concern regarding News or Current Affairs content, you may write to or email our independent ombudsperson, who is responsible for ensuring compliance to the CBC/Radio-Canada Journalistic Standards and Practices. Meet or contact our ombudsperson and read their reviews CBC SPORTS TEAM Alexis Allison, Sophie Baron, Jason Boychuk, Jeremy Brascoupe, Signa Butler, Jesse Campigotto, Tony Care, Tanya Casole-Gouveia, Gabriella Cook, Bill Cooney, Myles Dichter, Jacqueline Doorey, Pat Grier, Doug Harrison, Devin Heroux, Ryan Johnston, Milan Maglov, Holly McNeill, Monika Platek, Justin Piercy, Rob Pizzo, Jamie Strashin, Steven Tzemis. QUESTIONS AND FEEDBACK If you have any questions or feedback for the CBCSports.ca team you can email them here and we will endeavour to address them as soon as possible: CBCSports@cbc.ca.       CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now