About CBC Arts | CBC Arts Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch arts CBC Arts Currently Selected: About CBC Arts Shows Video Articles More About CBC Arts | CBC Arts Loaded Arts About CBC Arts Welcome to CBC Arts, your home for the most surprising, relevant and provocative stories featuring artists from diverse communities across Canada. Social Sharing CBC Arts · Posted: Jun 03, 2015 12:00 PM ET | Last Updated: July 8, 2015 Exhibitionists: Season 3 Trailer 4 years ago 0:58Changing how we see Canada: through movement, through image, through sound. Exhibitionists Season 3 with Amanda Parris premieres this Friday night at 12:30am on CBC TV and online at cbc.ca/watch! 0:58 Welcome to CBC Arts, your home for the most surprising, relevant and provocative stories featuring artists from diverse communities across Canada. Our job is to fill your feed with the disruptors and innovators changing how we see the country through movement, images and sound — and to inspire you to join in too. On cbc.ca/arts, we feature original articles and videos as well as the best stories from across CBC. We also produce CBC Arts: Exhibitionists, a weekly half-hour show about people who create and why they do it, hosted by actor, playwright and educator Amanda Parris. CBC Arts is also the online home for other arts TV shows like Interrupt This Program and innovative digital series like This Art Works!, Queer (Self) Portraits and Keep Calm and Decolonize. Want more Arts? Follow us on Facebook, Instragram and Twitter, subscribe to our YouTube channel, sign up for our weekly newsletter (coming soon!) and keep checking cbc.ca/arts for the latest. Still not sure what we're about? Here's a sampling of some of our favourite stories: You might find this kid's art pretty scary, but he politely disagrees You might find this kid's art pretty scary, but he politely disagrees 4 years ago 2:58In this video, you'll meet Callum Donovan Grujicich in his studio and on one of his foraging trips with his brother — and see why the 12-year-old's sculptures are turning heads. 2:58 Callum Donovan Grujicich is 12 years old. He prefers making art to explaining it, and he's completely aware that you might find his own artworks kind of creepy. But they're not at all frightening to him. Read more. How to be an ally during pow wow season Catherine Hernandez and Waawaate Fobister share advice for non-Indigenous folks joining in the celebrations. Read more. These photos of nude black women in the Canadian landscape are here to question our assumptions These images of nude black women in the Canadian landscape are here to question our assumptions 4 years ago 3:33Artist Ella Cooper on why she created her Ecstatic Nudes series. 3:33 Artist Ella Cooper wants to subvert and empower through a photographic exploration of black joy. "When you think of Canada's national identity and what that looks like, I often think of the Group of Seven, moose, Canadian mounties. Rarely do I see black women depicted in the Canadian landscape." Read more. How to weave an Afghan rug...using Microsoft Word Shaheer Zazai. Carpet No. 1. Digital archival print on watercolour paper. Produced in Microsoft Word. 25.5" x 42". 2017. (Courtesy of the artist) File > New > Perspective! Shaheer Zazai discovered a new medium — and a new appreciation for his culture. Read more. Dust off your dancing shoes and turn up the Tchaikovsky — we're learning how to pirouette Let a ballerina from The Nutcracker teach you how to pirouette 5 years ago 1:49Pointe shoes and tutu are optional... Snow Queen crown is mandatory. 1:49 Ready to bring your childhood Nutcracker dreams to life? Ballet dancer Alexandra MacDonald took some time out of her grueling rehearsal schedule to let us into the studio and get a glimpse of her spinning a little bit of holiday magic. Read more. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now