AdChoices in Canada - Learn about the blue icon & your choices Learn FAQ Tools Participants Principles Accountability En Savoir Plus FAQ Outils Participants Principes Responsabilité Why Join? Pourquoi adhérer Back Frequently Asked Questions Back Principles & Guidelines Business FAQ Glossary of Program Terms Webinars & Newsletter Back Foire aux questions Back Les Principes Joindre - Enregistrement d'entreprise FAQ à l’intention des entreprises Webinaires et bulletin Lexique des termes du programme Learn FAQ Frequently Asked Questions ToolsParticipants Principles Principles & Guidelines Business FAQ Glossary of Program Terms Webinars & Newsletter AccountabilityEn Savoir Plus FAQ Foire aux questions OutilsParticipants Principes Les Principes Joindre - Enregistrement d'entreprise FAQ à l’intention des entreprises Webinaires et bulletin Lexique des termes du programme ResponsabilitéWhy Join?Pourquoi adhérer The Canadian AdChoices self-regulatory program, administered by the Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada Scroll   What is Interest-Based Advertising? All advertising seeks to show the right products to the right audience at the right time. Most online ads are not targeted to you as an individual but rather to data categories such as your probable demographics (age, gender), interests (automobiles, travel, shoes), location, websites visited and apps used.   Why am I seeing that blue icon? When you see the blue triangular icon in ads or on websites and apps, it is meant to alert and inform you that interest-based advertising data is being collected or used on that device. AdChoices represents a company’s promise that you can control your ad targeting experience with them. Click or tap on the icon to discover more. Participating Companies Is your company interested in joining the program? Click here.         How Your Information is Used The process of serving online ads based on predicted interests relies on recognizing cookies that are stored by web browsers or advertising IDs set on mobile devices. Over time, this information gathered by companies informs them how to show more relevant ads. For example, people who visit automotive websites might receive more ads for a particular model of car that interest them.   The Icon and How It Works The AdChoices icon is there to inform you that data is being collected or used for interest-based advertising on your device by a company. AdChoices is not an advertising company itself, it is simply a notice that dozens of companies use to let you know that you can control the interest-based data flow companies use for ads by clicking or tapping on the blue icon to learn more or to opt-out. The AdChoices program is consistent with the requirements set out in Canadian privacy laws.   The Icon is Your Beacon In Canada, you have privacy rights that companies need to adhere to - and that’s why you see the blue icon - it’s there to inform and empower you to take control. Advertising fuels the internet's economy. In order to use the services we have come to expect from the web such as social media, free email accounts, websites we visit, apps we use and more, these services need to be funded. Advertising, like many other forms of media, funds these platforms. When ad targeting is done right, it's relevant and timely.     Managing What You Share Through the AdChoices self-regulatory program, you can opt-out of interest-based advertising and also report any issues with interest-based advertising that you encounter. Companies engaging in any type of interest-based advertising practices online should be respecting your data privacy rights in Canada by providing you with notice about the collection of data for advertising purposes and the use of interest-based advertising when it’s happening. Companies must also give you the ability to opt-out. Visit our Choice Tools     Report a Complaint Companies registered in the AdChoices self-regulatory program are held accountable. In Canada, complaints are accepted and addressed through the independent enforcement body, Ad Standards. Learn More     What is Interest-Based Advertising? Why Am I Seeing that Blue Icon? How Your Information is Used The Icon and How it works. The Icon is Your Beacon Managing What You Share. Report a Complaint   Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada 33 Bloor Street East, Suite 303, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3H1   Associations of DAAC Association of Canadian Advertisers Association of Creative Communications Agencies Canadian Marketing Association Canadian Media Directors' Council Institute of Communication Agencies Interactive Advertising Bureau of Canada Quebec Media Directors' Council AdChoices is the self-regulatory program for online interest-based advertising helping to provide notice, transparency, and accountability from the advertising sector online to consumers. The Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada (DAAC) is the not-for-profit consortium of trade associations that is responsible for administering the AdChoices self-regulatory program in Canada. About DAAC Contact Us News Privacy Policy Legal Political Ads Program California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Associations de DAAC Association canadienne des annonceurs Association des agences de communication créative Association canadienne du marketing Bureau de la publicité interactive du Canada Canadian Media Directors' Council Conseil des directeurs médias du Québec Institute of Communication Agencies Choix de pub est un programme d’autoréglementation de la publicité ciblée par centres d’intérêt en ligne visant à fournir aux consommateurs des avis, une transparence et une responsabilité de la part  du secteur de la publicité en ligne. L’Alliance de la publicité numérique du Canada (DAAC) est un regroupement sans but lucratif d’associations professionnelles, chargé d’administrer le programme d’autoréglementation canadien Choix de pub. Au sujet de la DAAC Contactez-nous Actualités Politique de confidentialité Juridique Programme Publicité politique California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) © 2021 Digital Advertising Alliance Of Canada   Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada (DAAC) 33 Bloor Street East, Suite 303, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3H1, Canada info@daac.ca Hours Mon 9am - 5pm Tue 9am - 5pm Wed 9am - 5pm Thu 9am - 5pm Fri 9am - 5pm Sat Closed Sun Closed