Alanis Morissette is working on a new ABC sitcom inspired by her life | CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More Alanis Morissette is working on a new ABC sitcom inspired by her life | CBC Music Loaded Music Alanis Morissette is working on a new ABC sitcom inspired by her life The singer will be writing new music for the show, titled Relatable. Social Sharing The singer will be writing new music for the show, titled Relatable CBC Music · CBC Music · Posted: Nov 09, 2021 10:18 AM ET | Last Updated: November 10 Though the story and characters of the new sitcom will be fictional and non-biographical, the story will be loosely based on Alanis Morissette's life. (Kevin Winter/Getty Images) comments A new ABC sitcom based on the life of Alanis Morissette is in the works, and the singer will be an executive producer in addition to writing new songs for the show. Titled Relatable, the sitcom will "parody the family life of a '90s rock legend," according to Deadline, and it'll be helmed by Marlon co-creator Christopher Moynihan and Goldbergs supervising producer Elizabeth Beckwith. The show will follow the life of a 40-something-year-old woman whose early years were spent as an international star, "famous for her self-penned anthems of female rage and teen angst," as described in Deadline. (Enter: Jagged Little Pill.) The woman's three kids, however, do not connect with her the way millions of fans used to. This announcement comes a few months after Morissette distanced herself from a recent documentary released about her life. Right before the HBO documentary Jagged premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival, Morissette, who was extensively interviewed for the film, said "This was not the story I agreed to tell." She didn't specify what she took issue with in the documentary.  Alanis Morissette blasts documentary Jagged as 'salacious' OpinionWho gets to tell the story in music documentaries now? Morissette's record-breaking and seminal album, Jagged Little Pill, turned 26 this year. The singer's most recent and ninth album, Such Pretty Forks in the Road, came out in 2020, and Morissette is currently a judge on Fox's singing competition show Alter Ego.  Related Stories Q Jagged Little Pill at 25: How Alanis Morissette tapped into female rage and changed music for good Alanis Morissette's Jagged Little Pill earns a leading 15 Tony Award nominations From Joni Mitchell to Drake: the biggest Canadian moments in Grammy Award history Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now