Alec Baldwin had no reason to fire gun on Rust set, new lawsuit alleges | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Alec Baldwin had no reason to fire gun on Rust set, new lawsuit alleges | CBC News Loaded Entertainment Alec Baldwin had no reason to fire gun on Rust set, new lawsuit alleges A lawsuit filed Wednesday alleges that Alec Baldwin recklessly fired a gun when it wasn't called for in the script when he shot and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza on the New Mexico set of the film Rust. Social Sharing 'There was nothing in the script about the gun being discharged,' lawsuit says Andrew Dalton · The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 17, 2021 6:09 PM ET | Last Updated: November 17 Rust script supervisor Mamie Mitchell, left, appears with her lawyer Gloria Allred during a news conference on Wednesday in Los Angeles. (Richard Vogel/The Associated Press) comments A lawsuit filed Wednesday alleges that Alec Baldwin recklessly fired a gun when it wasn't called for in the script when he shot and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza on the New Mexico set of the film Rust. "There was nothing in the script about the gun being discharged by DEFENDANT BALDWIN or by any other person," the lawsuit from script supervisor Mamie Mitchell says. The lawsuit is the second to stem from the shooting, with many more expected. Like last week's from head of lighting Serge Svetnoy, it was filed in Los Angeles Superior Court and names many defendants including Baldwin, who was both star and a producer; David Halls, the assistant director who handed Baldwin the gun; and Hannah Gutierrez Reed, who was in charge of weapons on the set. Mitchell's suit focuses mainly on Baldwin's actions. It said she was standing next to Hutchins and within four feet (1.2 metres) of the actor, and was stunned when he fired the gun inside the tiny church on Bonanza Creek Ranch on Oct. 21. WATCH | Prop weapon protocol on film sets extremely tight, says Canadian specialist: Prop weapons protocol on film sets extremely tight, says Canadian specialist 27 days ago 9:09There are very strict laws around handling prop weapons during a film shoot and even blank ammunition is loaded in front of the crew, says Seth Rossman, a Toronto armaments specialist for film and TV productions. (Adria Malcolm/Reuters) 9:09 According to discussions before the scene was filmed, it called for three tight shots of Baldwin: one on his eyes, one on a blood stain on his shoulder, and one on his torso as he pulled the gun from a holster, the suit says. There was no call for Baldwin to point the gun toward Hutchins and Souza, nor to fire it, the suit says. And it alleges Baldwin violated protocol by not checking the gun more carefully. "Mr. Baldwin chose to play Russian roulette when he fired a gun without checking it, and without having the armourer do so in his presence," Mitchell's attorney Gloria Allred said at a news conference. Alec Baldwin shares Rust crew member's post disputing descriptions of 'chaotic' movie set Film armorer says someone may have put bullet in gun in fatal shooting on Rust set A veteran script supervisor who has worked on nearly 100 productions, Mitchell was on a set for the first time since the pandemic began. She was the first to call 911 after the shooting, the suit says. She suffered "serious physical trauma and shock and injury to her nervous system," the suit says, without giving details. She is seeking both compensation and punitive damages in amounts to be determined later. Lawyers and other representatives for the defendants had no immediate comment. Halyna Hutchins, who was shot and killed while working as a cinematographer on the film Rust, is seen in this handout picture, unknown location. (Andriy Semenyuk/Reuters) Baldwin said on video on Oct. 30 that the shooting was a "one-in-a-trillion event" saying, "We were a very, very well-oiled crew shooting a film together and then this horrible event happened." Mitchell's suit alleges that the armourer on the production, Gutierrez Reed, had minimal experience, and she was hired as one of several cost-cutting measures that proved dangerous. It says she violated protocol by allowing guns and ammunition to be unattended during a lunch break. Gutierrez Reed told authorities she does not know how a live round ended up in the gun. Her lawyer Jason Bowles said in a statement last week that "we are convinced this was sabotage and Hannah is being framed. We believe that the scene was tampered with as well before the police arrived." Santa Fe-area district attorney Mary Carmack-Altwies said last week that investigators have encountered no proof of sabotage. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Crew member sues Alec Baldwin, others over Rust shooting Alec Baldwin shares Rust crew member's post disputing descriptions of 'chaotic' movie set Film armorer says someone may have put bullet in gun in fatal shooting on Rust set Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now