Alexandre Silberman - Video Journalist | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Alexandre Silberman - Video Journalist | CBC Loaded Alexandre Silberman Video Journalist Alexandre Silberman is a video journalist with CBC New Brunswick based in Moncton. He has previously worked at CBC Fredericton, Power & Politics, and Marketplace. You can reach him by email at: alexandre.silberman@cbc.ca Follow Alexandre on Twitter Latest from Alexandre Silberman Graveyard statue's missing head mysteriously reappears after two decades For more than two decades, a white, Italian marble statue of a young woman has stood headless over the Gray’s Island Cemetery in the southeastern New Brunswick village of Hillsborough. This week, the head returned to the graveyard. Canada -New Brunswick |November 19 Bathurst reaches bailout deal to keep Titan hockey team in city The move to support the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League team follows relocation speculation, changes in ownership and poor attendance in recent years. This summer, the ownership group announced it needed to consider selling the franchise. Canada -New Brunswick |November 17 Aging New Brunswick lobster fishermen fight to be able to sell licences Many Category B fishermen are advocating a modification of the decades-old restrictions that have prevented them from selling or transferring their licences. Canada -New Brunswick |November 15 New Brunswickers prepare for slow return of travel across U.S. land border The reopening of the U.S. land border on Monday is a welcome move among snowbirds and those looking to visit friends and family. But border communities expect testing requirements for returning to Canada will deter smaller trips. Canada -New Brunswick |November 8 N.B. veteran takes journey of remembrance to 244 cemeteries Etienne Gaudet has spent the last year driving on back roads, knocking on doors and at times searching through the dense woods of New Brunswick to find gravestones of soldiers. Canada -New Brunswick |November 5 Moncton homeless shelter hit hard by spread of COVID-19 outbreak House of Nazareth has reported 37 cases linked to the homeless shelter since an outbreak was first declared by Public Health on Oct. 19. Everyone who tested positive at the downtown shelter has been moved to a separate isolation site. Canada -New Brunswick |October 29 Here's what the letters C and T mean on a rapid test — and why they're used If you’re one of the thousands of New Brunswickers who picked up a COVID-19 rapid test kit, you might be wondering what those letters for negative and positive mean. Canada -New Brunswick |October 28 New information delays class-action lawsuit over labour-inducing drug A new issue raised in a Moncton courtroom on Tuesday has delayed a hearing to determine if a class-action lawsuit can proceed against Horizon Health Network and a former nurse. Canada -New Brunswick |October 26 Bathurst residents concerned about cloudy, brown drinking water Residents claim the water from their taps turned dark brown, sandy and discoloured, with an earthy taste and smell. It became so cloudy, the city warned people to check the colour before doing any laundry. Canada -New Brunswick |October 26 Horizon Health argues mothers' class-action lawsuit should not proceed A hearing began Monday to determine if a class-action lawsuit can proceed on behalf of mothers who believe they were improperly given a labour-inducing drug by a Moncton nurse. Canada -New Brunswick |October 25Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now