Alexander Zverev dominates, avenges earlier loss to Medvedev for 2nd ATP Finals title | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Alexander Zverev dominates, avenges earlier loss to Medvedev for 2nd ATP Finals title | CBC Sports Loaded Tennis Alexander Zverev dominates, avenges earlier loss to Medvedev for 2nd ATP Finals title After eliminating No. 1 Novak Djokovic over three sets in the semifinals, third-ranked Alexander Zverev put on a dominant performance in Sunday's final, beating No. 2 Daniil Medvedev 6-4, 6-4 for his second ATP Finals title. Social Sharing 3rd-ranked German won Olympic gold this year and led tour with 59 victories Andrew Dampf · The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 3:08 PM ET | Last Updated: 34 minutes ago Alexander Zverev earned his second title at the ATP Finals on Sunday, beating reigning U.S. Open champion Daniil Medvedev, who won the event last year and had beaten Zverev in five consecutive previous meetings. (Julian Finney/Getty Images) comments If Alexander Zverev's performance this weekend is any indication, a lot can be expected from the third-ranked German in 2022. Zverev beat the top two players in consecutive matches to earn his second title at the ATP Finals. After eliminating No. 1 Novak Djokovic over three sets in the semifinals, Zverev put on a dominant performance in Sunday's final, beating No. 2 Daniil Medvedev 6-4, 6-4. Medvedev, the U.S. Open champion, won this event last year and had beaten Zverev five consecutive times. "There's no better way to end the season than winning here," Zverev said from Turin, Italy. "I'm also now very much looking forward to next year already." The title culminates quite a year for Zverev, who also won the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics and who has now finished 2021 with more wins on tour — 59, one more than Medvedev — than anyone else. The main thing missing in Zverev's trophy collection is a Grand Slam title, having lost an epic final to Dominic Thiem in last year's U.S. Open final, when Zverev served for the title in the deciding fifth set. "He is a great player that is capable of beating anybody. He definitely can win a Grand Slam because it's just obvious," Medvedev said. "But he's not the only one. That's where it gets tough. … You need to win seven matches to be a Grand Slam champion. Is he capable? Yes. Is he going to do it? We never know." Fast conditions The final was a rematch of a round-robin encounter on Tuesday, when Medvedev beat Zverev in a third-set tiebreaker. This one went Zverev's way from the start, as the six-foot-six player crushed a huge backhand to the corner then gained from a net-cord winner to break Medvedev's serve in the third game of the match. Helped by fast conditions inside the Pala Alpitour, Zverev was virtually untouchable on his serve, winning 20 of 25 points with his serve in the first set. Zverev denies Djokovic another chance to earn big title at ATP Finals Olympic gold medallist Zverev joins Djokovic, Medvedev in semis at ATP Finals Zverev broke again in the opening game of the second set then grew so confident that he began executing audacious swinging-volley winners as he followed his serve to the net on occasion. Zverev closed it out with an ace out wide on his first match point, on a second serve. This marked the first edition of the season-ending event for the top eight players in Turin — after 12 years in London, where Zverev won his first finals title in 2018. "Obviously London was an incredible event, but I think … Italy has topped it," Zverev said. "What makes it so special here in Italy is the fans, because the fans are absolutely insane," Zverev added. "It's the loudest crowd, it's the most energetic crowd." Pierre-Hugues Herbert and Nicolas Mahut won the doubles title by beating Rajeev Ram and Joe Salisbury 6-4, 7-6 (0). CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Zverev denies Djokovic another chance to earn big title at ATP Finals Olympic gold medallist Zverev joins Djokovic, Medvedev in semis at ATP Finals Medvedev foils Djokovic's historic Grand Slam bid with dominant U.S. Open victory Casper Ruud defeats Andrey Rublev to round out semis of ATP Finals More tennis coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now