As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Health As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? A girl receives a dose of a COVID-19 vaccine at a public school in Chile in September. With Health Canada set to approve Pfizer-BioNTech's COVID-19 vaccine for Canadians aged five to 11, parents of these younger school-aged children must now decide whether they'll be queuing up to get their kids their shots. Photo:  (Rodrigo Garrido/Reuters) RCI Posted: November 19, 2021 7:21 PM With Health Canada expected to approve (new window) Pfizer-BioNTech's COVID-19 vaccine for children aged five to 11 — and as it continues to review Moderna's pediatric version (new window) — parents of younger school-aged children must now decide whether they'll be queuing up to get their kids these shots. Here's a quick refresher about vaccinations for children and school-related immunization Who's responsible for childhood immunizations?  Parents and guardians are ultimately responsible for getting their children immunized. Who actually gives kids their regular shots, however, depends on region. In some areas, it might be a nurse, or specifically a public health nurse, while elsewhere it may be a pediatrician or family physician/general practitioner. In some cases, like for a flu shot, it could be a pharmacist. Provinces and territories distribute and manage delivery of vaccines, which are approved and procured by the federal government.  Health officials across the country have already been planning how to roll out COVID-19 vaccines for the 5-11 age group, ranging from setting up specific pediatric vaccination clinics (some with therapy dogs) (new window), incorporating pediatricians and family physicians (new window) and enlisting pharmacies (new window) as well.     An eight-year-old, joined by a therapy dog, shows off the bandage over his injection site after being vaccinated in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 3. Photo: (Carolyn Kaster/The Associated Press) In every province and territory, schools are also a common public space to host vaccination programs for students. Multiple regions have mentioned planning COVID-19 vaccine clinics in school spaces, as they've already done for older children, teens and families. Looking to the COVID-19 vaccination rollout for younger kids, there needs to be adjustments in the mass clinics to accommodate children and use of pain- and anxiety-management techniques, because we know that many children are afraid of needles and that could be a stressful event to be vaccinated in a crowd, said Ève Dubé, a medical anthropologist and researcher at the Quebec National Institute of Public Health. Is immunization mandatory to attend school in Canada? Childhood immunization is highly recommended by public health and school officials across Canada as a long-lasting, effective protection against vaccine-preventable diseases.  In order to attend school in Ontario, the Immunization of School Pupils Act (new window) requires proof of vaccination (or being granted an exemption) for a series of diseases, including diphtheria, measles, mumps, polio, rubella, tetanus and more. A section of New Brunswick's Public Health Act (new window) mandates that parents or guardians of students starting school — which is typically at kindergarten — show proof of vaccination (or have an accepted exemption). British Columbia's Vaccination Status Reporting Regulation (new window) compels families to disclose a student's immunization record or seek an exemption. In the event of an outbreak — of measles, for instance — unvaccinated students are required to remain at home (new window) for a set period of time. Winnipeg school requiring all eligible students to be vaccinated in order to attend (new window) Other provinces and territories don't make vaccination mandatory, but schools in those regions may still review the immunization records of students registering for school for the first time. Alternately, public health officials or school nurses may review children's immunization records at the age they typically start school or at subsequent intervals.  In Alberta, for instance, public health reviews come in Grades 1, 6 and 9 (new window). If vaccinations are missing or incomplete, information sheets about them are typically sent home, along with parental consent forms, ahead of routine in-school clinics. Compelling immunization can increase uptake, according to research from the U.S., where every state has some vaccine requirements. But in Canada, it's less clear, said Dubé. Ontario has required proof of vaccination for school attendance since 1982, she said, whereas Quebec doesn't. But when we compare Quebec vaccine uptake versus Ontario vaccine uptake, it's quite similar. Will COVID-19 vaccines be added to the current list of shots for children? In early October, California became the first U.S. state to require COVID-19 vaccination for its K-12 students (new window). Over the past few months, different voices in Canada have called for provincial health officials to add vaccination against COVID-19 to the existing list of childhood vaccinations, including the chair of the Toronto District School Board (new window) (Canada's largest school board), the head of public education advocacy group People of Education (new window) and Toronto's medical officer of health, Dr. Eileen de Villa (new window). At this point, however, it doesn't seem like Canadian provinces and territories are moving in that direction. In late October, Ontario's Chief Medical Officer of Health Dr. Kieran Moore said he won't (new window) be adding it to the province's list, but will consider the ongoing threat of COVID-19 as he reviews that decision going forward. Saskatchewan Premier Scott Moe said in early November he also will not mandate that schoolchildren receive a COVID-19 vaccine. (new window) WATCH | Mandating vaccination for students can 'backfire,' says epidemiologist: Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? Do all regions have school-based vaccination?   The approach to immunizing kids varies across Canada (new window), with differences that include who gives the shots, at what age or grade a particular vaccine is given, when immunization is officially recorded, what kind of followup from health workers exists and how vaccination data is collected and published. However, all provinces and territories do regularly participate in vaccination programs (new window) in conjunction with local public health officials, with many held in primary and secondary school settings. Standard vaccine programs were delayed last year due to the pandemic, but many catch-up initiatives for routine immunizations are planned or already underway. The federal government lists the recommended immunization schedules that exist in each province and territory (new window) and provides a tool for families to figure out a schedule for children under six (new window), as well as for students from Grade 1 through 12 (or Secondary V in Quebec) (new window).  Polio vaccine set off wave of relief, and a wave of resistance. COVID-19 era may be similar, says Jill Lepore (new window) How is Canada doing with childhood vaccinations? Every two years, Statistics Canada conducts the Childhood National Immunization Coverage Survey (cNICS) to measure the proportion of kids who have received all routine vaccinations at the ages of two, seven, 14 and 17, as well as what parents and guardians know and think about vaccines. Initial analysis of the most recent survey, which took place in 2019 (new window), found that while the majority of two-year-old Canadians received all the recommended suite of vaccines, there was still room to improve uptake. According to Canada's National Immunization Strategy, the goal for childhood vaccination coverage (new window) is 95 per cent by ages two and seven, and 90 per cent for adolescents.  No province or territory has met the childhood goals for all vaccines.  Newfoundland and Labrador comes the closest, meeting the goal for multiple vaccines and typically registering the highest coverage (new window) across Canada's regions.  Does a child always need parental consent for vaccinations? The age that kids can themselves consent to receiving a vaccine (versus getting parental consent) varies across Canada and is based on whether they are assessed to be a mature minor by a health-care professional. That can start at age 12 in Manitoba and B.C., for instance, going up to 18 in Alberta. A child or adolescent assessed as a mature minor must learn the risks and benefits of the vaccination from a health-care provider and understand this information ahead of granting consent. Their medical record would be kept confidential, so parents or guardians of a student deemed to be a mature minor may not be aware of the vaccination. Jessica Wong (new window) · CBC News  Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational   RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre  RCMP was ordered to stop selling surplus vehicles after a gunman used a retired cruiser in violent rampage 2 days agoSociety RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021