B.C. urges residents of province's North Coast to prepare for severe weather | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More B.C. urges residents of province's North Coast to prepare for severe weather | CBC News Loaded British Columbia B.C. urges residents of province's North Coast to prepare for severe weather Environment and Climate Change Canada issued a series of warnings and special weather statements for the northern half of British Columbia. Social Sharing Warnings come as other regions in B.C. work to recover from extreme weather CBC News · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 5:22 PM PT | Last Updated: November 21 Orca whales are pictured in Chatham Sound near Prince Rupert, B.C. Environment Canada is forecasting heavy rains for the area. (Jonathan Hayward / The Canadian Press) comments British Columbia is asking residents along the province's North Coast to be ready for severe weather this weekend. Environment and Climate Change Canada issued a series of warnings and special weather statements for the northern half of the province. The special weather statement for the North Coast said Prince Rupert could record up to 150 millimetres of rain by Monday morning. Haida Gwaii is also expected to get up to 60 mm of rain. Other areas inland could see up to 20 cm of snow by Sunday afternoon. Snowstorm damages power lines in B.C.'s North Coast, resulting in power outage for neighbouring U.S. town The River Forecast Centre issued a flood watch for the North Coast, including Haida Gwaii, Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley Bay, Kemano and surrounding areas. The provincial government asked residents in these area to prepare for stormy weather by clearing gutters on homes, checking nearby storm drains for blockages, storing valuables in water-tight containers in case of flooding and having an emergency plan. A full list of recommendations from the province is listed here. Prince Rupert broke a record for the most rain to fall in the city in a single summer in at least a century during the summer of 2020. (Carolina de Ryk/CBC) The warning over potential severe weather comes as other regions in B.C. work to recover from extreme weather last weekend that cut off highways, flooded farmland and forced evacuations. This week there were questions about if the province had done enough leading into the Remembrance Day weekend to warn residents over the potential impact of extreme weather. AnalysisB.C. government defends disaster response, says emergencies like flooding and mudslides start at 'local level' The weather system hitting the North Coast is expected to move south on Monday to areas that were already vulnerable to previous flooding, Environment and Climate Change Canada said. But forecasters said the weather system should weaken as it moves south. The Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure said extra crews and equipment are on standby, ready to respond as necessary with potential impacts from severe weather. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia Bodies of 3 men recovered, 1 still missing, in mudslide near Lillooet B.C. highways reopen, food systems starting to stabilize, provincial officials say A timeline of how once-in-a-century flooding unfolded across B.C. Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now