Benign Neglect Parenting is the Best Parenting of All | Learning Skip to Main Content Instagram Pinterest Twitter Facebook Search Ages: 2-5 Ages: 6+ Ages: All Home Play All Play Activities Crafts Printables Active Play Ages: all How To Make DJ Turntables With Paper And Glue Ages: all How To Make Pet Houses For Stuffies Ages: all How To Make Super-Stringy and Spooky-Ooky Spider Webs For Halloween Ages: all How to Make Racers Using Paper, Glue and Thread Parenting All Parenting Learning Stories Tech & Media Humour Family Health Ages: all My Son’s Pandemic Weight Gain Has Made Him Self-Conscious About His Body Ages: all I Consider Myself An Ally And Even I Was Taken Aback By A Family Member’s Coming Out Story Ages: all What Happened When I Was Publicly Shamed For Not Bathing My Child Ages: all You Can’t Stop Time, But Your Time On This Planet Could Be Different Food All Food Breakfasts Lunches Dinners Snacks & Treats Ages: all Pirate Treasure Pancakes for Weekend Breakfast Ages: all How Pizza Can Be Used to Get Kids Talking About Their Feelings Ages: all 20 easy-to-prepare snacks when you haven’t had a free moment in weeks Ages: all Cozy & Simple Carrot Soup Shows All Shows Ages: all Becca’s Bunch Ages: all True and the Rainbow Kingdom Ages: all PJ Masks Ages: 2-5 Daniel Tiger’s Neighbourhood Videos Apps Events Submit Instagram Pinterest Twitter Facebook Search My Son’s Pandemic Weight Gain Has Made Him Self-Conscious About His Body I Consider Myself An Ally And Even I Was Taken Aback By A Family Member’s Coming Out Story What Happened When I Was Publicly Shamed For Not Bathing My Child How To Make DJ Turntables With Paper And Glue You Can’t Stop Time, But Your Time On This Planet Could Be Different I Constantly Throw Things Out and I Still Live In A House Surrounded By Garbage How Likely Does An Emergency Have To Be For You To Prepare For It? How To Make Remembrance Day Poppies With Bingo Dabbers How I Deal When My Otherwise Chill Teen Suddenly Becomes Moody If You Asked Me 10 Years Ago, I Wouldn’t Know The Planet Had A Climate Problem It Isn’t Always Easy to Just Let Kids Be Kids What Happened When My Adopted Child Told Me ‘You’re Not My Real Mom!’ 10 Spooky Streams to Watch Or Listen To This Halloweekend! How To Make Pet Houses For Stuffies Squid Game Reminds Me How Far Parents Could Go To Protect Their Kids I Used to Think Halloween Was Evil, Now I Love Celebrating It With My Kids How To Make Super-Stringy and Spooky-Ooky Spider Webs For Halloween I’m A Young Mom, I’m Burnt-Out And I Don’t Want Us To Think That’s Normal I’d Rather Honestly Answer My Kid’s Questions About Sex While He’s Still Listening My Schrödinger Pregnancy Included Mourning, Grief, Fear, Panic and Joy Social Media Is Designed To Lure You In, But Will It Protect Your Kids When They’re There? What’s A Dad To Do When Mom And Teenage Daughter Clash? I Miss Volunteering at My Kids’ School Canadian Thanksgiving is Often Oversimplified For Kids — But There’s A Lot to Discuss What I Wish My Parents Had Said When I Came Out As Gay How My Life Unfolded When My Partner and Kid Both Came Out as Trans How to Make Racers Using Paper, Glue and Thread My Sister Isn’t Ready to Re-enter Society, But I Am Stop Telling Kids That A Career In The Arts Has Less Value Than Others I’ve Grown Out Of Being A Teen Mom, But Certain Situations Make Me Feel 15 Again ‹ › Search Play > All Play > Activities > Crafts > Printables > Active Play Parenting > All Parenting > Learning > Stories > Tech & Media > Humour > Family Health Food > All Food > Breakfasts > Lunches > Dinners > Snacks & Treats Shows > All Shows Videos Apps Events Submit Share Ages: all Stories Benign Neglect Parenting is the Best Parenting of All By Jeni Marinucci PHOTO © BigGirlCamera/Twenty20 Mar 17, 2020 In many ways, I think children are just like hearty houseplants — they should be watered liberally and you should ensure they get ample sunshine. But otherwise, just let them be. Likewise, acting a little bit less hands-on in parenting is going to (probably) result in happier kids. I say “probably” because I can’t ask my own children right this minute; one is out for a solo hike and the other is in Ireland with a friend on holiday. "I’m only too happy to continue my family tradition of letting kids figure things out for themselves." I can’t say my parenting method comes from a lot of research and thought, and I promise you that nary a parenting guidebook had touched my hands. Instead, I trust my gut and ask for advice when needed from people who seem to have great relationships with their kids. Other that that, I stand back and let things unfold as they may. If there’s anything I’ve learned in parenting kids for two decades, it’s that you control NOTHING. I also have a driving desire to keep things as simple as possible in all areas of my life. The cliché “work smarter, not harder” has a lot of relevance for parents. Besides, parenting is already exhausting, so why do we insist on making it harder at every turn? Ever heard of "train your baby like a dog" parenting? Find out how people reacted to that idea here. I was raised with heaping helpings of “do it yourself,” in a manner I refer to as “benign neglect” — and it’s been my own primary model for parenting. And here’s the best part: it works! I’m only too happy to continue my family tradition of letting kids figure things out for themselves. I am absolutely present in my kids' lives and make myself fully available to them (after all, this isn’t “ignore them” parenting). I guide and divert when things look dicey, but for the most part, letting kids fail — and succeed! — on their own is what creates resiliency and grit. I hope to be around for years and years to come, but my kids are only kids for a while and they are adults for the greater part of their lives. So while I am definitely their soft spot to land when they need comfort, I am also decidedly “get out of the way” when they want lunch on a Saturday or need to figure out a ride to the movies. (Answers: the fridge is full, you have a bank card if you want pizza from the deli and there are bikes and helmets in the garage.) "Start small if it’s hard to relinquish control and do something like prepare the kids that this coming Saturday is going to be a free-for-all." I haven’t made a haircut appointment for my children in years, and that’s because I showed them how to do it themselves. By 14, my daughter was arranging her own appointments and setting up times for things like back-to-school supply shopping. I pay for those things (I’m not a monster), but she arranges it all and figures out a way to get herself there. I also set a budget, hand it over and let her buy her own clothes. If she wants to spend all $200 on one pair of shoes and a single sparkly pencil, that is entirely her call. I still arrange things like medical visits, but my kids have and will continue to go to some appointments on their own. They have never had an issue relaying messages to me from the orthodontist or optician, and if I need to, I follow up with a call to the expert. I asked my kids how they feel doing these things and I only get blank stares back. That’s because this is their normal and they cannot understand a life where they weren’t able to exert some control over their own time, life and bodies. This mom is not a snowplow parent — read why she's happy when her kids fail here. Try stepping back a bit. Start small if it’s hard to relinquish control and do something like prepare the kids by making an upcoming Saturday a free-for-all. Even at four or five, I could sleep in after telling the kids they could make themselves cereal or cold oatmeal for breakfast. And since the advent of the iPad, I haven’t had to wake up before 9 a.m. on a Saturday. When my then 12-year-old son was with a friend for a sleepover, they wanted to sleep outside in the cardboard boxes the new patio furniture came in. My instinct was to say no, but I stopped and asked myself why not. They were in a safe area devoid of bad weather, prowlers and wild roaming animals. You can guess what happened, and it was not “they got eaten by wolves.” No — they got cold, came in around 4 a.m. after a sleepless but super-fun night and now have an incredible and funny memory to take with them when they become parents. This is what the power of “yes” through a hands-off benign approach can do for your kids. If you think benign neglect sounds a bit sketchy, consider it more like free-range parenting, but in a way that is as beneficial for the parents as it is for the kids! Share You might also like Ages: all Stories We Need to Calm the F&%$ Down About Parenting Teens Ages: all Stories Here’s Why I Think Roughhousing Is Good For My Kids Ages: all Stories We’re All Going to Die: Conversations with a 5-year-old, 7-year-old and a Squirrel Named Eli Jeni Marinucci Read more from Jeni here. Jeni is a writer with a guilty conscience, a love for humour and a questionable home-haircut. After her children were old enough to make their own sandwiches, she returned to university to complete her BA in English literature — a designation which has provided her with an extensive library and crushing student loans. When no teaching college wanted her, she had to choose between taking orders through a drive-thru window or from an editor. She chose the latter. You might also like Ages: all Stories We Need to Calm the F&%$ Down About Parenting Teens Ages: all Stories Here’s Why I Think Roughhousing Is Good For My Kids Ages: all Stories We’re All Going to Die: Conversations with a 5-year-old, 7-year-old and a Squirrel Named Eli Add New Comment To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Comments FAQ LOG IN Submission Policy Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted. By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever. Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines. Discover CBC Kids TV Schedule Discover our site for kids cbckids.ca Sign-up for the CBC Parents Newsletter Most Popular Ages: all Learning How To Talk To Kids About The National Day For Truth And Reconciliation Ages: all Stories What I Wish My Parents Had Said When I Came Out As Gay Ages: all Stories I’d Rather Honestly Answer My Kid’s Questions About Sex While He’s Still Listening Ages: all Tech & Media Social Media Is Designed To Lure You In, But Will It Protect Your Kids When They’re There? Ages: all Learning My Daughter is Leaving French Immersion After 9 Years — Was It Worth It? Contact About Us Contests Sitemap CBC Kids Privacy Terms of use Instagram Pinterest Twitter Facebook Contact About Us Contests Sitemap CBC Kids Privacy Terms of use Instagram Pinterest Twitter Facebook CBC Radio-Canada ©2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved Visitez Radio-Canada.ca