Bodies of 3 men recovered, 1 still missing, in mudslide near Lillooet | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Bodies of 3 men recovered, 1 still missing, in mudslide near Lillooet | CBC News Loaded British Columbia Bodies of 3 men recovered, 1 still missing, in mudslide near Lillooet B.C.'s chief coroner says attempts to locate the fourth missing man were unsuccessful, but discussions are underway to determine how best to proceed going forward. Police are now trying to identify the three men who were found and notify their next of kin. Social Sharing Search efforts conclude as police try to identify the 3 men and notify next of kin CBC News · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 9:16 AM PT | Last Updated: November 20 Fallen trees and debris are pictured on Monday after a flood swept through the area near Lillooet, B.C. The bodies of three men have been recovered from this mudslide after search efforts this week, RCMP said. The body of a woman was recovered from the site on Monday. (B.C. Ministry of Transportation/Reuters) The bodies of three men have been recovered at a mudslide near Lillooet, B.C., following search efforts this week, the RCMP said.  One deceased person was recovered on Wednesday, while two others were found on Thursday, B.C. Chief Coroner Lisa Lapointe said in a written statement on Saturday. The search continued on Friday to locate a fourth man who was reported missing, but those attempts were unsuccessful, she said. On Monday, the body of a woman was also recovered from the slide site — becoming the first confirmed fatality as a result of catastrophic flooding and landslides across the southern half of the province caused, in part, by extreme rain last weekend. Search efforts have now concluded as all avenues have been exhausted, Lapointe said, but discussions are underway to determine how best to proceed going forward. Police are now trying to identify the three men and notify their next of kin. 4 people now missing in mudslide south of Lillooet on Highway 99, RCMP say 1 confirmed dead as rescue teams continue searching debris from B.C. mudslide "I also extend my heartfelt condolences to the families who are now grieving the sudden and unexpected death of their loved one, and to the family of the missing person we have so far been unable to locate," Lapointe said in the statement. "This has been an incredibly difficult year for all of us in B.C., and my heart goes out to the many families and communities who have suffered tragic losses. At the BC Coroners Service, we will continue to do our best to determine the facts of these tragedies for the public record and, where possible, make recommendations to prevent similar deaths in the future." Pemberton SAR responded to a mudslide on Duffy Lake Rd/Highway 99 this afternoon as several vehicles caught in mudslide. <a href="https://t.co/niJBDo76bN">pic.twitter.com/niJBDo76bN</a>&mdash;@PembertonSar Police, along with search-and-rescue crews, had been looking for four missing people connected to a mudslide that swept across a section of Highway 99 — also known as the Duffey Lake Road — on Nov. 15. B.C. RCMP Staff Sgt. Janelle Shoihet said efforts to find the fourth missing person have been hampered by weather and site conditions. The area remains closed to motorists with no timeline on when the highway will reopen. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia Wet'suwet'en camp leader, journalists arrested as RCMP enforce pipeline injunction in northern B.C. B.C. highways reopen, food systems starting to stabilize, provincial officials say Areas hit hard by flooding also dealing with regional COVID-19 restrictions Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now