Broken iPhone? Apple will finally sell parts to let you fix it — not brick it | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Technology Broken iPhone? Apple will finally sell parts to let you fix it — not brick it The self-service repair program from Apple comes after years of pressure from consumer groups has resulted in the company providing greater access to repair manuals and genuine parts. Photo: Apple RCI Posted: November 17, 2021 9:19 PM Apple will soon start selling spare parts and tools to ordinary people who want to make small fixes to their iPhones and Mac laptops, in a major step forward for the growing 'right-to-repair' movement. The California-based technology giant announced that starting next year, it will soon sell more than 200 parts and tools that can perform the most commonly requested repairs to some of its smartphones, including iPhone 12 and iPhone 13. In 2019, Apple started a program where independent repair shops can buy its parts, tools and manuals. Apple said there are now 2,800 independent shops in its program in addition to its 5,000 directly authorized repair providers. The new program takes that one step further, allowing owners and users of the devices to be able to make some minor repairs themselves. Customers will be offered the same pricing on parts and tools as independent repair shops and will be able to return their used parts to Apple after completing a repair to receive a discount. Creating greater access to Apple genuine parts gives our customers even more choice if a repair is needed, COO Jeff Williams said. 'Right to repair' movement The self-service repair program from one of the world's biggest technology companies is a victory for the so-called right-to-repair movement (new window) that has gained prominence as more of the products people buy — from smartphones to dishwashers to farm equipment — become increasingly sophisticated and integrated with computers. Why calls for 'right-to-repair' rules are revving up again for vehicles in Canada (new window) Nathan Proctor with the U.S. Public Interest Research Group and one of the loudest backers of the movement, called the move a landmark moment in an interview with CBC News on Wednesday. One of our biggest opponents has more or less conceded that people can be allowed to fix their devices. In the past, Apple has resisted the move to allow users to repair their own devices on the argument that it would lead to safety and security issues where systems could be infected, or that devices could ignite and explode from using off-brand parts.  Proctor says the decision is a major win for consumers — even if the program is limited to only certain fixes on certain devices, for now. They've had to concede something they didn't want to concede, he said. "We've won the argument and will continue to be right even after we discover details we don't like about this program. Apple is kind of leading the class, so when they start to turn … that's a really significant indication about the power of the right-to-repair campaign. Pete Evans (new window) · CBC News  Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021