Business - CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Currently Selected: Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Business - CBC News Loaded Business - CBC News Featured Content Why there aren't enough Santas to go around in some parts of Canada Thanks to vaccinations against COVID-19 and the easing of some public health restrictions, Canadians are going to be seeing a lot more of Santa in 2021 than they did last year. But with a regional Santa shortage, your chances of landing a pre-Christmas photo opportunity may depend on where you live.      James Dunne Business |3 hours ago| These people were able to take their big-city salaries to more affordable towns Brandie Weikle Radio -Cost of Living |November 20| Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Sophia Harris Business |November 19 Analysis Big banks want to act on climate change — so what's stopping them? Kyle Bakx Business |November 19| Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a negative COVID-19 test to return home, Ottawa confirmed on Friday. Sophia Harris Business |November 19 Hamilton youth charged after $46M in cryptocurrency stolen from U.S. resident A Hamilton youth has been charged in the theft of $46 million in cryptocurrency after investigators learned some of it was being used to buy a gaming username. Samantha Craggs Canada -Hamilton |November 17 Broken iPhone? Apple will finally sell parts to let you fix it — not brick it Apple will soon start selling spare parts and tools to ordinary people who want to make small fixes to their iPhones and Mac laptops, in a major step forward for the growing 'right-to-repair' movement. Pete Evans Business |November 17| Inflation rate jumps again to new 18-year high of 4.7% Pete Evans Business |November 17| Rogers CEO Joe Natale out, Tony Staffieri taking over Business |November 17 Rail lines washed out by B.C. floods could make Canada's supply chain crunch even worse Pete Evans Business |November 17| Michigan judge rejects attorney general's effort to move Line 5 case to state court James McCarten Canada -Calgary |November 17| Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Amanda Stephenson Business |November 16 Le Château set to relaunch with online offerings ahead of in-store rollout this spring Business |November 16| CBC Investigates Offshore 'mastermind' ran $300M 'shadow bank' for clients' tax-haven money, draft CRA report says Zach Dubinsky Canada -British Columbia |November 16 This is the busiest year ever for the housing market, with prices up 18% Pete Evans Business |November 15| Tim Hortons parent Restaurant Brands buying Firehouse Subs chain for $1B Business |November 15 Widespread working from home will end at some point, won't it? Maybe not Geoff Nixon Business |November 15 Analysis Will inflation be a horror or a healthy readjustment? Economists clash over the basics Don Pittis Business |November 15| MARKETPLACE Marketplace tested Perrier, LaCroix, Bubly sparkling waters to see which is most acidic Charlsie Agro Canada |November 14| Striking deal on emissions-trading scheme proves elusive again at COP26 Kyle Bakx Business |November 13| Marketplace Sugar shock at popular coffee chains; Sparkling water concerns; CBC's Marketplace Cheat Sheet Business |November 14 Supply chain delays could mean you'll soon be paying more for craft beer and wine Julia Wong Business |November 15| As euphoric bulls push stock markets to new highs, even the short selling bears are giving up Business |November 12 Analysis Edward Rogers won the war for his family's company — but at what cost? Pete Evans Business |November 12| SNC-Lavalin CEO postpones Montreal speech so he has time to add more French Canada -Montreal |November 12| Quebecer whose family is being sued by Hudson's Bay over Zellers brand says he's 'not surrendering' Anis Heydari Radio -Cost of Living |November 12| Electric vehicle maker with virtually no sales went public Wednesday — and it's already worth more than GM Business |November 11| China's Evergrande avoids default for 3rd time in a month with last minute cash scramble Business |November 11|Load More Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Currencies Quotes Business Video Covering the world of business and money. Watch the latest videos Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now