Caitlin Taylor - Associate Producer | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Caitlin Taylor - Associate Producer | CBC Loaded Caitlin Taylor Associate Producer Caitlin is an investigative journalist on CBC's Marketplace. Send her a story tip at caitlin.taylor@cbc.ca. Latest from Caitlin Taylor MARKETPLACE 5 out of 6 winter boots fail slip test on ice, Marketplace finds Marketplace looked at popular brands for sale in Canada — Merrell, Sorel, Kamik, Ugg, Timberland and WindRiver — to see how some of these companies’ winter boots would fare on a wet, icy surface.  Canada |2 hours ago MARKETPLACE Canada's grocery chains stocked with tomato products connected to Chinese forced labour A CBC Marketplace investigation found several products sold in Canadian grocery stores with links to forced labour in Xinjiang, China. Canada |November 18 Canada halts import of goods linked to forced labour from China, Malaysia The federal government has stopped two separate shipments of goods linked to forced labour from entering Canada — a move that has some advocates pleased but still pushing for more.  Canada |November 17 Toronto plastic surgeon's licence suspended over social media posts, surveillance of patients without consent A Toronto plastic surgeon and self-styled social media influencer has had his licence to practise medicine suspended.  Marketplace |May 14 MARKETPLACE Are cheaper eggs just as nutritious as organic or free-run options? Marketplace tested 14 brands to find out Some of the cheapest, widely available eggs tested by Marketplace may be just as nutritious as some of the most expensive.   Marketplace |April 4 MARKETPLACE Hidden camera reveals 'appalling' conditions in overseas PPE factory supplying Canadian hospitals, expert says As global demand for personal protective equipment (PPE) surges during the pandemic, so has the human cost for those making it overseas, an investigation by CBC’s Marketplace has found. World |January 16 Marketplace Which smartphone, laptop and tablet brands break down the most? We asked over 3,000 Canadians to find out A CBC Marketplace survey that asked more than 3,200 Canadians about smartphone, laptop and tablet breakdowns and repairs revealed that an overwhelming majority of them are dealing with broken technology that is too difficult or too expensive to repair. Canada |January 11 Marketplace What's the germiest surface in a supermarket? You might be surprised In light of the global COVID-19 pandemic, Canada's biggest grocery store chains have increased their cleaning and disinfecting measures. But how well is that working? Marketplace |November 2, 2020 CBC Investigates Infection control oversight lacking at Ontario seniors' homes as inspections dwindled Oversight of infection control measures — key to keeping long-term care homes free of illness — plummeted when Ontario scaled back comprehensive annual inspections last year, a CBC News investigation has found. Canada |April 17, 2020 Marketplace Plastic surgeon vows to fight potential class-action lawsuit alleging he filmed patients without consent A Toronto plastic surgeon says a class-action lawsuit alleging he breached the privacy rights of patients by recording them without their consent using surveillance cameras inside his clinic is without merit and he will fight it vigorously if it is certified. Canada |December 4, 2019Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now