Calgary rugby player reported to be among those killed in B.C. mudslide | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Calgary rugby player reported to be among those killed in B.C. mudslide | CBC News Loaded Calgary Calgary rugby player reported to be among those killed in B.C. mudslide A Calgary father killed in a mudslide in British Columbia this week is described by his friends as a passionate family man and active member of the city’s rugby community.  Social Sharing 4 people found dead in mudslide after heavy rains, 1 person remains missing Jade Markus · CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 8:50 AM MT | Last Updated: 4 hours ago Steven Taylor, right, with Dean Hopkins. The two met through the Calgary Irish Rugby Club. Taylor's former rugby team said he was killed in the fatal mudslide on Highway 99, south of Lillooet, B.C. on Nov. 15. (Submitted by Dean Hopkins) comments A Calgary father killed in a mudslide in British Columbia this week is described by his friends as a passionate family man and active member of the city's rugby community. Steven Taylor's former rugby team, Calgary Irish Rugby Club, released a statement on Saturday on social media that said he was killed in a fatal mudslide on Highway 99, south of Lillooet, B.C., on Nov. 15. B.C. Chief Coroner Lisa Lapointe said in a written statement on Saturday that four people had been found dead and one is still missing. Catastrophic flooding and landslides across the southern half of B.C. were caused, in part, by extreme rain last weekend. Dean Hopkins met Taylor in Calgary 12 years ago through the rugby club. "Steve was a man who was larger than life itself, an active member of the rugby fraternity within Calgary and the province. He lived and breathed rugby and sport. That was his passion," Hopkins said. Taylor, pictured, was described by friends as a passionate rugby player. He worked in construction and relocated with his wife to B.C. a year ago, after the COVID-19 pandemic began. (Submitted by Dean Hopkins) "He was a huge family man, but he would do anything for anyone." Taylor, who friends say has three children and one grandchild, relocated to Vancouver with his wife a year ago. Hopkins said Taylor worked in construction and had moved to B.C. after the COVID-19 pandemic hit. "He was out at a camp north of Vancouver and doing some work, and because of inclement weather, they closed the job down," Hopkins said, which is when Taylor started driving home. "Steve was one of the people there who was out and probably trying to find out what was going on when the mudslide hit." Bodies of 3 men recovered, 1 still missing, in mudslide near Lillooet Rescuers lift hundreds of motorists trapped on B.C. highway to safety Reece Coad, who played rugby with Taylor at Calgary Knights RFC, said Taylor was like a father to him. "When he stepped onto a rugby pitch, he was the most intense human being out there. He was scary to play against," Coad said. "Very few people that take the game that seriously." But despite Taylor's tough game play, Coad said, he wasn't like that off the field. "He was very harsh on tough love, but a big softie on the inside — hard on the outside, soft on the inside." 'Steve was a man who was larger than life itself,' Hopkins said of Taylor. 'He was a huge family man, but he would do anything for anyone.' (Submitted by Dean Hopkins) In her statement on Saturday, Lapointe said that over the past five days, her office worked with law enforcement and search-and-rescue professionals to try to locate people who were reported missing after the mudslide at Duffy Lake. "I also extend my heartfelt condolences to the families who are now grieving the sudden and unexpected death of their loved one, and to the family of the missing person we have so far been unable to locate," she said. Severe impacts of flooding created by perfect storm of circumstances in southern B.C. "This has been an incredibly difficult year for all of us in B.C., and my heart goes out to the many families and communities who have suffered tragic losses. At the B.C. Coroners Service, we will continue to do our best to determine the facts of these tragedies for the public record and, where possible, make recommendations to prevent similar deaths in the future." A spokesperson for the coroner's office said in an email to CBC News that under the Coroners Act and due to privacy considerations, it does not release or confirm information related to the identity of the deceased. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Severe impacts of flooding created by perfect storm of circumstances in southern B.C. Bodies of 3 men recovered, 1 still missing, in mudslide near Lillooet Rescuers lift hundreds of motorists trapped on B.C. highway to safety Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now