Canadiens snap 4-game skid with win over Predators in high-scoring affair | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More NHL Scores Standings Statistics Teams Players Injuries Transactions Drafts Odds More NHL Canadiens snap 4-game skid with win over Predators in high-scoring affair | CBC Sports Loaded NHL Canadiens snap 4-game skid with win over Predators in high-scoring affair The Montreal Canadiens exploded for four goals in the second period and held on to win 6-3 over the Nashville Predators Saturday to snap their four-game losing skid, despite a third-period hat trick from Matt Duchene. Social Sharing Montreal holds on for victory despite 3rd-period hat trick by Nashville's Duchene Tristan D'Amours · The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 10:39 PM ET | Last Updated: November 21 Canadiens’ Brendan Gallagher, right, celebrates with teammate Jonathan Drouin, left, after scoring a goal against the Predators during the second period of Montreal's 6-3 home win on Saturday night at the Bell Centre. (Graham Hughes/The Canadian Press) comments The Montreal Canadiens embark on a three-game road trip with a much-needed boost of confidence. Montreal exploded for four goals in the second period and held on to win 6-3 against the Nashville Predators Saturday to snap their four-game losing skid, despite giving up a third-period hat trick to Matt Duchene. BOXSCORE: Canadiens 6, Predators 3 Ryan Poehling, with two, Artturi Lehkonen, Christian Dvorak, Brendan Gallagher and Tyler Toffoli, into the empty net, scored for Montreal (5-13-2). Toffoli, Jonathan Drouin and Chris Wideman picked up two assists each. Head coach Dominique Ducharme thought his team returned to their roots of playing a solid game without being too flashy. "We were engaged in what we wanted to do, we were a lot sharper mentally and it showed in the way we executed," Ducharme said. "Sometimes execution is not complicated, it's not about making highlight-reel passes and plays. "It's just about being strong enough mentally to make good decisions, stick with the plan and to be confident that in the long run it's going to pay off." WATCH | Habs hold off Predators to snap losing skid: Canadiens rebound from ugly loss, hold on for victory against Predators 18 hours ago 2:16The Montreal Canadiens score four goals in the second period en route to a 6-3 win over the Nashville Predators. 2:16 The Canadiens, which play at Washington, Buffalo and Pittsburgh on the upcoming road trip, remain among the bottom feeders in the NHL. But Ducharme hopes the win triggers a consistent string of successes. "Now, we need to bring it to another level and give ourselves a chance," Ducharme said. "Even if nobody believes it, we need to give ourselves a chance to get back in the race." Habs goaltender Samuel Montembeault picked up his first win in Montreal colours, allowing three goals on 36 shots. "I didn't get to play a lot since the beginning of the year so this was my opportunity to really show what I have," Montembeault said. "I really wanted to make a big save from the start and give the team a chance. "Obviously for the guys on the bench, that helps their confidence and I think their execution was much better so as the game was going we were better and better." Nashville's Duchene gets 3rd-period hat trick  Duchene scored his third-period hat trick in less than 10 minutes for the losing Predators (9-7-1). Juuse Saros allowed five goals on 19 shots and was pulled in the second period. David Rittich blocked all nine shots in relief. "In the third period, we wound up scoring on the power play and it gave us a chance to get in, but we gotta be better and more consistent," said Nashville head coach John Hynes. "We didn't get rewarded for what we probably deserved in the first and then made some ill-advised plays in the second and we paid for it." The Preds lost their last two road games against the Canadiens and the Toronto Maple Leafs. Nashville had an extended, three-day break due the postponement of their matchup with the Ottawa Senators who were hit with a COVID-19 outbreak. "We should've come out and have a lot of energy," said Roman Josi, who had an assist. "Montreal played Thursday so that's definitely not an excuse. If anything, it should have helped us tonight." Canucks, Canadiens searching for answers in season already slipping away Canadiens GM Marc Bergevin tests positive for COVID-19 Lehkonen broke the ice 2:41 into the game. The Finn recovered the puck in Saros' crease and tapped in his first goal of the season. The Predators thought they had levelled the score in the first period but referee Corey Syvret waved the goal off, judging that Luke Kunin directed the puck into the net with his arm. Montreal doubled its lead at the start of the second period when Josh Anderson made a no-look, backhand pass for Dvorak who bagged his third of the campaign. Gallagher made it 3-0 for the Habs on the power play at 3:32. The veteran received a pass from Drouin and tapped the puck in. WATCH | 9 best NHL duos of all-time: 9 best NHL duos of all-time...in 90 seconds 4 days ago 2:20Stopping one superstar is hard enough, stopping these duos was almost impossible. 2:20 Poehling notched two consecutive goals in the span of 37 seconds for Montreal's fourth and fifth unanswered goals of the night at 9:31 and 10:08 to complete the four-goal second period. Following Poehling's second marker, Hynes pulled Saros in favour of Rittich. Duchene scored power-play goals at 6:36 and 12:53 of the third period before completing his hat trick at even strength at 16:27 to bring the Predators within two. The Preds pulled their goalie in an attempt to complete the comeback but Toffoli sealed the 6-3 win with an empty-netter. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories BOXSCORE: Canadiens 6, Predators 3 Canucks, Canadiens searching for answers in season already slipping away Canadiens GM Marc Bergevin tests positive for COVID-19 Crosby pots 1st goal of season as Penguins crush Canadiens in Montreal TEAM PAGE: Nashville Predators TEAMPAGE: Montreal Canadiens More NHL coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now