Canadians De Bruin, Bujnowski score women's bobsleigh bronze in Austria | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Canadians De Bruin, Bujnowski score women's bobsleigh bronze in Austria | CBC Sports Loaded Bobsleigh Canadians De Bruin, Bujnowski score women's bobsleigh bronze in Austria The Canadian duo of Christine De Bruin and Kristen Bujnowski landed on the women's bobsleigh podium at the first World Cup event of the season on Sunday in Austria. Social Sharing Teammates had combined for bronze in Beijing test event in October CBC Sports · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 7:29 AM ET | Last Updated: 4 hours ago Canada's Christine de Bruin and Kristen Bujnowski compete during the first run of the women's bobsleigh event in Innsbruck, Austria, on Sunday. (Johann Groder/Getty Images) comments The Canadian duo of Christine De Bruin and Kristen Bujnowski landed on the women's bobsleigh podium at the first World Cup event of the season on Sunday in Austria. Here are Canada's top skeleton racers vying for selection to Beijing 2022 The team finished their two runs in a combined time of one minute, 46.51 seconds, good enough for bronze behind a pair of German sleds. Laura Nolte and Leonie Fiebig took gold in 1:46.22, and compatriots Kim Galicki and Anabel Galander finished 0.39 behind them for silver. It was the second podium this fall for the Canadians – De Bruin and Bujnowski also took bronze at an Olympic test event in Beijing in October. Bujnowski and de Bruin pushed the fourth, and top start times in Igls en route to the podium. "That race was all Buj," de Bruin said. "She got us those start velocities and I just tried to keep the speed down the track. We are back." Bujnowski was happy to be back after missing the entire 2021 season recovering from an injury. "I'm not used to getting top start times, but I definitely won't get tired of it," Bujnowski said. "We had a couple of great pushes and impressive velocities, so I am really happy with that. "The field is especially tacked right now, and I am pushing against so many brakewomen who are my idols, so it is awesome to stand amongst them." In the four-man bobsleigh event, Justin Kripps of Summerland, B.C., piloted Ryan Sommer, of White Rock, B.C., Cam Stones, of Whitby, Ont., and Ben Coakwell, of Saskatoon,  to a sixth-place finish. Germany's Francesco Friedrich won with a time of 1:41.31, followed by Brad Hall of Great Britain and Germany's Johannes Lochner. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Russians strike gold in season-opening World Cup skeleton races Here are Canada's top skeleton racers vying for selection to Beijing 2022 Luge officials say Olympic track crash was 'human error' THE BUZZER Will Canada's medal count drop in Beijing? ROUNDUP De Bruin, Bujnowski reunite on Beijing track, slide to bobsleigh bronze medal ROUNDUP Canada's Cynthia Appiah slides to monobob bronze at Beijing Olympic test event Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now