Canadian captain Ghislaine Landry retires from rugby 7s after incredible career | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Canadian captain Ghislaine Landry retires from rugby 7s after incredible career | CBC Sports Loaded Rugby Canadian captain Ghislaine Landry retires from rugby 7s after incredible career Canadian Ghislaine Landry, the powerful captain of the women's rugby sevens team, has announced her retirement from the sport on Thursday.  Social Sharing 33-year-old caps career as all-time leading point scorer, Olympic bronze medallist CBC Sports · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 4:04 PM ET | Last Updated: 3 hours ago Canada's Ghislaine Landry runs the ball during rugby sevens action against Spain at the HSBC Women's Sevens Series at Westhills Stadium in Langford, B.C., Sunday, April 17, 2016. Canada will begin its hunt for a women's rugby sevens medal against Britain, host Brazil and Japan at the Rio Olympics. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press) comments Canadian Ghislaine Landry, the powerful captain of the women's rugby sevens team, announced on Thursday her retirement from the sport.  The prolific 33-year-old is the all-time leading point scorer in World Rugby Sevens Series with 1,356 career points. She is third in all-time in tries (143), second all-time in conversions (319) and tied for third all-time in matches played (208.)  Landry retires as a World Cup silver medallist, Pan American gold medallist, and an Olympic bronze medallist.  "They say you are a visitor in the jersey, and I'm proud to share this journey has come to an end. It has been an honour and a privilege to have played the game for so many years. As a kid stepping on to the rugby field for the first time, I never could have imagined what would transpire over the next 20 years and I am deeply grateful,"  Landry wrote on Twitter.   The Canadian — born in Toronto, now a Victoria, B.C., resident — made her debut with the senior team in 2011. Landry established herself as a dominant scorer at the 2013 world cup, where Canada earned silver and the athlete finished second in scoring. She was the second-leading scorer on the Canadian squad during the team's golden run at the 2015 Pan Am Games in Toronto with 47 points on five tries and 11 of 21 conversions.  "For over a decade, Ghislaine Landry has been at the forefront of Women's Sevens Rugby across the globe," wrote Rugby Canada on Twitter.  "Inspiring countless young women to pick up a rugby ball, it is bittersweet to say farewell as she moves onto the next adventure of her life." WATCH | Canada's Landry on her rugby 7s passion: Ghislaine Landry has been in love with sport since she was 10 4 years ago 1:01The career points leader in the Women's Rugby Sevens World Series thanks a childhood of playing multiple sports on her current success. 1:01 When rugby sevens made its Olympic debut in Rio, Landry helped the Canadian team claim the first-ever bronze by being Canada's leading scorer and the second-top scorer in the tournament with 41 points (five tries, eight conversions.) The captain was nominated for the World Rugby Women's Sevens Player of the Year in 2017.  She was also the team's leading scorer during Tokyo 2020 with 37 points on three tries and 11 conversions.  Landry earned bronze with Canada at the Rio Olympics in 2016 in the sport's Olympic debut. (Kevin Light/CBC) Landry has led the women's team ever since 2018, when Jen Kish ceded her captaincy ahead of her own retirement. That same year, Canada earned 4th-place at the Commonwealth Games in Australia.  1/3: For over a decade, Ghislaine Landry has been at the forefront of Women's Sevens Rugby across the globe. Inspiring countless young women to pick up a rugby ball, it is bittersweet to say farewell as she moves onto the next adventure of her life. <a href="https://t.co/w4sJZk94yD">pic.twitter.com/w4sJZk94yD</a>&mdash;@RugbyCanada CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Player's Own Voice podcast: The life unbalanced with Ghislaine Landry Video Ghislaine Landry is always pushing her team forward as a leader Preview Canadian rugby 7s squads enter World Series with eyes on future Rugby Canada fires coach who made 'unacceptable' posts toward women's 7s team at Tokyo Olympics Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now