Canada's Laurent Dubreuil wins gold at World Cup speed skating event in Norway | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Canada's Laurent Dubreuil wins gold at World Cup speed skating event in Norway | CBC Sports Loaded Speed Skating Canada's Laurent Dubreuil wins gold at World Cup speed skating event in Norway Laurent Dubreuil captured gold in the men's 500-metre competition at a long track speed skating World Cup stop in Stavanger, Norway, on Saturday. Social Sharing Teammate Ted-Jan Bloemen adds bronze in men's 10,000 metres CBC Sports · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 10:16 AM ET | Last Updated: November 20 Canada's Laurent Dubreuil is shown celebrating in this February 2021 file photo. He won gold in the men's 500-metre event on Saturday in Stavanger, Norway. (File/Getty Images) comments Laurent Dubreuil captured gold in the men's 500-metre competition at a long track speed skating World Cup stop in Stavanger, Norway, on Saturday. The native of Lévis Que., finished in a time of 34.573 seconds to stand atop the podium, ahead of Russia's Artem Arefyev (34.608) and Marek Kania of Poland (34.653). While he was slower through the first 100 metres, Dubreuil edged Arefyev at the finish. None of the skaters in the ensuing pairs were able to put forth a faster time and the mark set by Kania was good for third. It marked only the second individual World Cup victory of Dubreuil's career after he won gold in the 500 during the 2017-18 season. He tops the overall World Cup standings, eight points ahead of Tatsuya Shinhama of Japan, who placed fifth on Saturday. WATCH | Dubreuil speeds to gold in Stavanger: Laurent Dubreuil captures gold in 500m long track speed skating 1 day ago 4:05Laurent Dubreuil of Levis, Que., clocked in at 34.57 to finish first in the 500-metre competition of the ISU World Cup Speed Skating from Stavanger, Norway. 4:05 "It was obviously a good race, based on the victory. I didn't feel as good physically as I did last weekend, but I skated a lot better technically than in Poland," Dubreuil told Speed Skating Canada. "I was able to stay concentrated all the way to the finish, despite my pair starting much faster than I anticipated, but I know that I am capable of being even faster." Ted-Jan Bloemen also picked up a podium finish on Saturday, scoring a bronze medal in the men's 10,000 ahead of teammate Graeme Fish of Moose Jaw, Sask., in fourth. Bloemen sits second in the World Cup long distance rankings, trailing only Nils van der Poel of Sweden, who set a new track record of 12:38.928 to take the gold medal in Saturday's race. WATCH | Bloemen takes bronze in 10,000: Ted-Jan Bloemen finishes third in 10,000m World Cup speed skating 1 day ago 17:01Olympian Ted-Jan Bloemen earned a bronze medal in the men's 10,000-metre competition at the ISU Speed Skating World Cup from Stavanger, Norway. 17:01 His lap times were consistently more than half a second faster than those of Dutch skater Jorrit Bergsma, who crossed the line 17.16 seconds behind his pair to earn silver. "I'm really happy to pick up another medal today. I knew it was going to be a tough race, since I am a skater that really uses his technique and his glide to go fast, which works better in faster conditions," Bloemem said. "I can feel that there is so much more potential in me on faster ice, so I am excited for the next two World Cups in Salt Lake City and Calgary. Swede sets track record "Nils van der Poel was a bit in his own category today, so we will need to keep chipping away." Sweden's Nils van der Poel set a track record to win in 12 minutes 38.928 seconds. Dubreuil and Bloemen's medals were the second and third picked up by Canadians this weekend in Stavanger. Isabelle Weidemann opened the event with a silver medal in the women's 5,000 on Friday.  WATCH | Weidemann skates to silver in women's 5,000: Ottawa's Isabelle Weidemann speeds to World Cup silver in women's 5,000m race 2 days ago 8:20Ottawa's Isabelle Weidemann finished behind only Dutch skater Irene Schouten in the women's 5,000-metre race at the ISU World Cup stop in Stavanger, Norway. 8:20 Ottawa's Ivanie Blondin, Maddison Pearman of Ponoka, Alta., and Alexa Scott of Clandeboye, Man., finished second in women's team sprint behind Poland on Saturday. Blondin was able to make up significant ground in the final 400 metres catapulting the team from fifth to second position and a finishing time of 1:28.547. The silver medal marks a first senior World Cup podium finish for both Pearman and Scott. The Polish team narrowly edged the Canadians for gold with a time of 1:28.364, while China took bronze after their final skater crossed the line in 1:28.574. "The team sprint isn't an Olympic event, so we went into the race without a ton of pressure and just wanting to have fun," Pearman said. "It's one of our biggest strengths and advantages over the other teams that we train together every day." Action wraps up Sunday with the second 500 and the 1,500 for both men and women. Races will be streamed live at CBC Sports beginning at 9 a.m. ET. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's Weidemann skates to 5,000m silver at World Cup stop in Norway THE BUZZER Winter Olympic stock watch: Canadian skaters on the rise Canadian speed skaters earn 7 long track medals at season-opening World Cup Pascal Dion silver tops trio of Canadian short track medallists More speed skating coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now