Canada's road to the World Cup | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Canada's road to the World Cup | CBC Radio Loaded Front Burner Canada's road to the World Cup Canada’s men’s soccer team is closer to going to the World Cup tournament than it has been in decades, after a historic win against heavyweight team Mexico. Shireen Ahmed, a sports journalist and a podcaster, breaks down the game for Angela Sterritt. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 19, 2021 5:41 AM ET | Last Updated: November 19 Canada players celebrate a goal scored by forward Cyle Larin, centre, during a 2-0 win over Mexico in a World Cup qualifying match in Edmonton on Tuesday. (Jason Franson/The Canadian Press) Front Burner18:42Canada’s road to the World Cup The last time Canada's men's soccer team went to the World Cup was in 1986. They didn't score a single goal.  But now with coaching from John Herdman and star players like Alphonso Davies, the team has started to believe in itself — and this week, won an important qualifying event against Mexico, a soccer powerhouse. After scoring their second goal, team members leaped into a snowbank in the –10 C Edmonton weather to celebrate. This iconic moment comes only a few months after Canada's women won their first Olympic gold for soccer in Tokyo.  Shireen Ahmed is a regular contributor to TSN, and a co-host of the Burn It All Down podcast. Today, she takes us through the game, what it means for Canada, and what comes next for soccer in this country.  Listen on Google Podcasts Listen on Apple Podcasts Listen on Spotify Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now