Canada's tennis community reacts to missing Chinese player Peng Shuai | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Canada's tennis community reacts to missing Chinese player Peng Shuai | CBC Sports Loaded Tennis Canada's tennis community reacts to missing Chinese player Peng Shuai Canada's tennis community has joined the call for an independent investigation into the whereabouts and well-being of China's Peng Shuai. Social Sharing Professional Tennis Players Association calls for evidence of star's well-being John Chidley-Hill · The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 19, 2021 5:18 PM ET | Last Updated: November 19 Peng Shuai, right, seen competing at the 2020 Australian Open, posted allegations online that a former vice premier forced her to have sex despite repeated refusals following a round of tennis three years ago. (Clive Brunskill/Getty Images) comments Canada's tennis community has joined the call for an independent investigation into the whereabouts and well-being of China's Peng Shuai. Milos Raonic of Thornhill, Ont., and Vancouver's Rebecca Marino and Vasek Pospisil tweeted about Peng on Friday, using the hashtag "WhereIsPengShuai." The Canadian players joined a chorus of other tennis pros, including American Serena Williams and Britain's Andy Murray, demanding to know what happened to Peng. China's Foreign Ministry said Friday that it wasn't aware of the controversy surrounding Peng, who disappeared after accusing a former top official of sexually assaulting her. "There's a lot of players who are speaking out and we're making a united front in drawing attention to what's going on with Peng Shuai," said Marino in an interview with The Canadian Press. "We're looking out for the safety and well-being of not just a tennis player, but an international person of interest." Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Pospisil tweeted a statement from the Professional Tennis Players Association that says it's asking for independent evidence confirming the safety and location of Peng. "There is nothing more important to us than the health, safety, and welfare of the players," reads the PTPA's statement. "We must unite and be willing to take action unless corroborated evidence is provided to the world about Peng's well-being." <a href="https://t.co/CJMmuKRjPb">pic.twitter.com/CJMmuKRjPb</a>&mdash;@VasekPospisil Zhao Lijian, a spokesman for China's Foreign Ministry, told reporters that the matter was "not a diplomatic question and I'm not aware of the situation." The ministry has consistently disavowed knowledge of the issue since Peng first made the allegations public. China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai Statement attributed to Chinese tennis player raises concerns about her safety, pro tour CEO says She wrote in a lengthy social media post on Nov. 2 that she was forced to have sex three years ago with Zhang Gaoli in his home despite repeated refusals. Zhang, 75, is a former vice premier who was a member of the ruling Communist Party's all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee. The post was quickly deleted from her verified account on Weibo, a leading Chinese social media platform, but screenshots of the explosive accusation were shared on the internet. WATCH | Peng Shuai missing since raising sexual assault allegations:  What we know about the missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai 3 days ago 3:44CBC’s Rob Pizzo is joined by CBC News Senior Correspondent Saša Petricic to discuss the latest on missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai and what impact it could have on potential boycott discussions surrounding the Beijing Winter Games. 3:44 The 35-year-old Peng is a former top-ranked player in women's doubles who won titles at Wimbledon in 2013 and the French Open in 2014. She also participated in three Olympics, making her disappearance all the more prominent with Beijing set to host the Winter Games starting Feb. 4. Marino and Peng have only played each other once, a 6-3, 6-0 victory for the Chinese player at the 2013 Australian Open. The Canadian said that although she doesn't know Peng very well personally, they were familiar with each other as regulars on tour with the Women's Tennis Association. Steve Simon, the chairman and CEO of the WTA, has said that his organization is willing to pull out of events scheduled in China if Peng's well-being is not independently verified. Simon has also questioned the authenticity of an email allegedly sent to him by Peng saying that she is safe. Marino supported the WTA's stance and said she was waiting for more information to come out before deciding if she would play in China again. "We want to make sure that women's rights are looked after and censorship in regards to the allegations looked into and investigated properly," she said. WATCH | CEO of WTA questions validity of statement attributed to Peng:  WTA CEO Steve Simon tells CNN he doubts validity of email purportedly from Peng Shuai 3 days ago 4:17Women's Tennis Association chairman and CEO Steve Simon tells CNN he doubts the validity of an email purportedly sent to him by Peng Shuai, in which she recants sexual assault allegations she levelled against a top Chinese government official. Simon also says the WTA is willing to pull their business dealings with China if the tennis star remains unaccounted for. 4:17 Tennis Canada calls for proof of safety Tennis Canada issued a statement on Friday saying that along with the rest of the tennis world it has deep concerns for Peng's health and security. It also called for independent and indisputable proof that Peng is safe. "We admire the courage Peng Shuai has shown in denouncing the conduct of a former Chinese leader involving allegations of a sexual assault," Tennis Canada said. "She must be allowed to speak freely without censorship and her allegation must be investigated with full transparency." Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian responds during the daily media presser in Beijing, China, Friday, Nov. 19, 2021. China's Foreign Ministry on Friday stuck to its line that it wasn't aware of the controversy surrounding tennis professional Peng Shuai, who disappeared after accusing a former top official of sexually assaulting her. (Liu Zheng/AP Photo) The International Olympic Committee declined to comment Friday, saying in an emailed statement: "Experience shows that quiet diplomacy offers the best opportunity to find a solution for questions of such nature. This explains why the IOC will not comment any further at this stage." COC 'monitoring' situation Canadian Olympic Committee representatives have previously said that although they understand people's concerns over the Beijing Olympics they do not believe a boycott would be effective. "We share the global sport community's concern for Peng Shuai and are monitoring the situation closely," said Canadian Olympic Committee CEO David Shoemaker in a statement on Friday. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/WhereIsPengShuai?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#WhereIsPengShuai</a>? <a href="https://t.co/nxAG2JiCNl">pic.twitter.com/nxAG2JiCNl</a>&mdash;@beccamarino90 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was asked late Thursday about Peng's disappearance and whether Canadian athletes should still participate in the Beijing Olympics. "Over the past many months, we have been having conversations with partners and allies around the world about the Beijing Olympics, about what our approach should be," said Trudeau as he wrapped up a two-day visit to Washington. His visit to the U.S. capital included a meeting with Joe Biden in the Oval Office, where the U.S. president confirmed he is considering a diplomatic boycott of the Olympic Games next year. "There are an awful lot of athletes in Canada and around the world who have been training, focused on this very, very much," Trudeau said. "We're looking for a way to both be able to see them show their capacities and fulfil all the hard work that they've done for many years, while continuing to demonstrate our real concerns with the way the Chinese government has behaved." Liz Throssell, a spokeswoman for the U.N. human rights office in Geneva, said Friday it was calling for "an investigation with full transparency into (Peng's) allegation of sexual assault." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Statement attributed to Chinese tennis player raises concerns about her safety, pro tour CEO says Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal Former world No. 1 doubles player accuses Chinese Communist Party official of sexual assault Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now