Cast of Harry Potter will reunite in special after 20 years — but no mention of J.K. Rowling | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Cast of Harry Potter will reunite in special after 20 years — but no mention of J.K. Rowling | CBC News Loaded Entertainment Cast of Harry Potter will reunite in special after 20 years — but no mention of J.K. Rowling Harry Potter stars Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint are reuniting with other cast members from the blockbuster film franchise for a special 20th anniversary TV retrospective, movie studio Warner Bros. said on Tuesday. Social Sharing Anniversary retrospective will stream Jan. 1 on HBO Max Jill Serjeant · Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 16, 2021 5:10 PM ET | Last Updated: November 16 From left, cast members Emma Watson, Daniel Radcliffe and Rupert Grint attend the premiere of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 in New York in July 2011. The trio will reunite, along with other actors from the franchise, for a 20th anniversary TV retrospective to stream on HBO Max on Jan. 1, 2022. (Lucas Jackson/Reuters) comments Harry Potter stars Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint are reuniting with other cast members from the blockbuster film franchise for a special 20th anniversary TV retrospective, movie studio Warner Bros. said on Tuesday. Robbie Coltrane (who played Hagrid) will join Tom Felton, Helena Bonham Carter and Gary Oldman (who portrayed Draco Malfoy, Bellatrix Lestrange and Sirius Black respectively), director Chris Columbus, and other stars of the eight movies, for Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts on the movie set in London where the first film was made. The release, however, omitted any mention of creator J.K. Rowling as taking part in the production. In recent months, the author has sparked outrage in the transgender community with remarks on how trans people should be defined by their biological sex.  The Hollywood Reporter reports that sources close to the project say that she will be featured in archival footage, but not make a new appearance in the special.  Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling sparks outrage again with tweets on transgender people Anti-trans views are worryingly prevalent and disproportionately harmful, community and experts warn The show will be broadcast on Jan. 1 on streaming platform HBO Max. Warner Bros. and HBO are owned by AT&T Inc. The retrospective will see the cast return to the original Hogwarts boarding school sets that were featured in the first film Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone ("Philosopher's Stone" in the U.K.), released in November 2001. The film franchise, based on J.K. Rowling's stories about an orphaned boy with magical powers, took in some $7.8 billion US at the global box office. The special is one of several 20th anniversary events planned by Warner Bros., including a TV quiz contest for Potter fans hosted by Helen Mirren, which will include cameo appearances by some of the cast and celebrity fans including comedians Pete Davidson and Jay Leno. With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories J.K. Rowling sparks outrage for including cross-dressing serial killer in new book J.K. Rowling returns human rights award amid criticism from organization Edmonton girl's drawing featured in new J.K. Rowling book J.K. Rowling draws criticism from transgender community for supporting controversial researcher Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now