CBC Sports - Player's Own Voice - CBC Sports Social Media links CBC Sports on Facebook CBC Sports on Twitter CBC Sports on Instagram CBC Sports on YouTube POV Home Podcast Beating the Odds Best Day Ever Breakthroughs Inspiration Retrospective Will to Win Will to Win Climate change is crushing athletes and I want sports organizations to sound the alarm I don’t want to tell my kids that running outside in the summer is something we 'used to do' Will to Win Make that 2 espressos and a podium to go Will to Win Where Leylah Fernandez, my daughter, gets her fierceness Breakthroughs My hustle continues, but it’s not for me anymore Inspiration It’s my turn to help the next wave of Indigenous youth on their path to NAIG Retrospective Running to study and studying to run Inspiration Connecting communities one adventure at a time Inspiration A community of caring strangers…it goes beyond logic. Everything but the fairy tale ending Retrospective Bridge-building time for women’s soccer Retrospective Make It Happen Inspiration There’s no better time for ‘radical optimism’ Retrospective 100 per cent ready with 100 days to go Will to Win A diamond for Mother’s Day Inspiration A call for help is also a show of strength Inspiration Canada should budget more for sports Breakthroughs Half marathon, full commitment: A chess match in running shoes Breakthroughs A record-breaking (and nearly spirit-breaking) ride across Canada Face a crisis alone? Not in Saskatchewan. What about Black Present Month? Inspiration Para sport welcomes me - but do I belong? Inspiration Don’t let the name fool you, Pickleball means business Retrospective With my family, the sky is the limit Will to Win Sexistimos takes on sex and disability Beating the Odds The Long Shot Inspiration When play strikes out, resilience steps up Best Day Ever The pursuit of perfection: A racer’s perspective Retrospective The ‘new normal’ is strange. Luckily, so was my old normal. Breakthroughs A pro athlete ‘decoded’ Beating the Odds Coaching an athlete in transition Beating the Odds I’m top 10 in the world in badminton, but my sport struggles in Canada Inspiration Returning to Play with Purpose Inspiration ExoSkeleton racing. Yes, it’s a thing. Inspiration Paddling from Kahnawake to Los Angeles Breakthroughs My unexpected new role: BLM organizer Best Day Ever When big sports come to small cities Inspiration A birthday message for turbulent times Beating the Odds Picking up the pieces after disaster strikes Inspiration Core values illuminate uncertain times Will to Win From Indigenous tournaments to the Olympics, it’s all about family Pushing through my comfort zone Breakthroughs An overnight sensation, 23 years in the making Inspiration Life lessons in isolation Inspiration Born to wear the black belt Breakthroughs Smashing the national record, and conventional wisdom. Beating the Odds Modern pentathlon, ancient ideals Best Day Ever Arctic volleyball wins - wobbling nets and all Inspiration Keeping a cool head amid uncertainty: A Canadian racer writes from Europe Breakthroughs South African Women on a Rugby run Inspiration Fastest. Strongest. Youngest? Breakthroughs One woman. One sled. No excuses. Best Day Ever A pitcher is worth a thousand words Beating the Odds We’re playing our hearts out. Have you noticed? Retrospective Kitzbühel ?— the perfectly terrifying test of a skier Will to Win The strange power of rest Beating the Odds How basketball saved my life Inspiration Black Canada Hike: Claiming our outdoor space Will to Win Cheers and caribous: On the sideline for field hockey’s finest hour Inspiration The Grim Reaper meets his nemesis Breakthroughs Rugby is my sport…but no more after party. Beating the Odds Back for a second splash Best Day Ever BMX is growing up fast, but we should still ride like we’re kids Will to Win My hands, my tools, my rules. Inspiration Being Bruny’s daughter Will to Win Jumping in with both feet Retrospective Back in the saddle Breakthroughs Why does a popular Olympic sport struggle year round? Retrospective Ultimate uprising: The sport with Olympic aspirations Will to Win Being average was a gift — seriously Breakthroughs 20 years of kicking, and the dream is real Will to Win The rodeo life: All bulls, no raging Inspiration When life gives you Lyme Inspiration I found my authentic self in time for the Olympics. This is my Pride story Beating the Odds The story of a man who built and lived wheelchair basketball Will to Win I had an Olympic Dream, and it disappeared. Now, it’s back. Inspiration The Olympic softball roller-coaster threw my entire career for a loop Retrospective Stormy seas clear a sailor’s mind Breakthroughs I’m a chemical engineer. But right now, I’m an LPGA Tour golfer Will to Win A career for the ages ends at 23 Inspiration Transgender athletes have to keep fighting for their space in sport Inspiration Whether on the court or in a boat, big comebacks run in the family