CBC News | Investigates Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science Currently Selected: CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More CBC News | Investigates Loaded CBC News | Investigates Featured Content THE FIFTH ESTATE WE Charity misled donors about building schools in Kenya, records show Marc and Craig Kielburger’s WE Charity routinely misled school-aged children and wealthy philanthropists across North America for years as it solicited millions for schoolhouses in Kenya and other projects in its Adopt-A-Village program, an investigation by CBC’s The Fifth Estate has found. Matthew Pierce Canada |2 hours ago CBC Investigates Military's ability to investigate sexual misconduct questioned again over case that outed soldier Judy Trinh Canada -Ottawa |November 18 CRA battling attempt to halt its probe of offshore 'mastermind' and his clients Zach Dubinsky Canada |November 18 CBC Investigates Offshore 'mastermind' ran $300M 'shadow bank' for clients' tax-haven money, draft CRA report says Zach Dubinsky Canada -British Columbia |November 16 GO PUBLIC Banks blame customers duped by fake cheques in online job scams Ivy Hotchkiss says she believed a fake cheque was real because the money initially showed up in her bank account, prompting her to e-transfer $3,500 to scammers. A consumer protection law professor says financial institutions should do more to protect customers. Erica Johnson Canada -Toronto |November 15| Landlords of renegade CAFE pot shops move to have charges dismissed In its latest attempts to shut down the sleek CAFE coffee shops that double as illicit pot dispensaries, the City of Toronto is resorting to the courts, where it's heaped charges on the landlords. One of them says it's a mess and he's caught in the crossfire. Zach Dubinsky Canada -Toronto |November 13 FIFTH ESTATE School of secrets: How Canada's head military chaplain helped run a school that became an abusive cult Students who attended a now-closed Anglican boarding school in eastern Ontario suffered abuse during their years there. Now, an investigation by CBC's The Fifth Estate reveals new allegations of sexual abuse involving senior figures at the school, opportunities to stop it decades sooner and the role played by a former headmaster who holds a senior position of trust in the Canadian military. Canada |November 12 Ontario doctor's obstruction charges dropped as husband pleads guilty over COVID-19 tracing Zach Dubinsky Health |November 10 CBC Investigates Billions of dollars for affordable housing not making it out the door, non-profit advocates say Shaina Luck Canada -Nova Scotia |November 5 THE FIFTH ESTATE He was told he had the N.B. 'mystery illness.' But a 2nd opinion says no as doubts swirl about diagnoses Mark Kelley, Virginia Smart, Lisa Ellenwood Canada |November 4| GO PUBLIC Small business owners defrauded, then left by banks to take $23K loss Rosa Marchitelli Business |November 1| GO PUBLIC 2 Victoria real estate agents deny drugging and sexually assaulting client Erica Johnson Canada -British Columbia |October 30 THE FIFTH ESTATE Canadian government urged to rescue Afghan interpreters long before American withdrawal, leaked emails reveal Saman Malik, Gillian Findlay, Ivan Angelovski, Joseph Loiero Canada |October 28| PANDORA PAPERS Leaked files expose Jacques Villeneuve's multimillion-dollar tax dodges Frédéric Zalac October 28 Suspect identified in Waterford Valley homicide investigation Ariana Kelland Canada -Nfld. & Labrador |October 25 GO PUBLIC Enterprise charges customer more than $3,300 for damage incurred after truck returned Erica Johnson Canada -Toronto |October 25| THE FIFTH ESTATE Workers pushing to unionize Amazon say they faced retaliation and unfair tactics Mark Kelley, Linda Guerriero, Lisa Ellenwood Canada |October 22| THE FIFTH ESTATE How a failed deal with China to produce a made-in-Canada COVID-19 vaccine wasted months and millions Scott Anderson Canada |October 15 GO PUBLIC Family blindsided after marketing company, funeral home cash in on father's obituary Rosa Marchitelli Canada -Toronto |October 11| Pandora Papers Before his death, Quebecer behind one of the largest online black markets used offshore accounts to dodge law Jeff Yates October 9 Video CBC Investigates Field visits by phone, locked-up PPE flagged by nursing home staff in 1st wave, documents show Julie Ireton Canada -Ottawa |October 7 Exclusive Elvis Stojko took out $6.5M in life insurance on his parents and says he has no idea why it ended up offshore Zach Dubinsky Canada |October 9 GO PUBLIC Civil suit alleges 2 Victoria real estate agents drugged and sexually assaulted their client Erica Johnson Go Public |October 30 PANDORA PAPERS Huge 'Pandora Papers' leak exposes secret offshore accounts of politicians, celebrities and billionaires Zach Dubinsky and the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists October 6 CBC Investigates Ottawa is lending billions to developers. The result: $1,500 'affordable' rents Richard Cuthbertson Canada -Nova Scotia |September 15| CBC Investigates N.L. taxpayers took on a refinery's environmental liabilities. A report outlining them is 6 years overdue Rob Antle Canada -Nfld. & Labrador |August 13| Video Video Cord blood bank claims all samples destroyed, hasn’t told clients July 27 CBC Investigates How a bankrupt college and questionable union spending left electrical workers in the dark Rob Antle Canada -Nfld. & Labrador |July 7Load More Contact CBC and our top investigative journalists securely and anonymously with SecureDrop. learn more Fifth Estate In-depth investigations about issues that matter to Canadians Watch the full episodes Marketplace Canada's consumer watchdog, helping Canadians protect themselves, their families and money Watch the full episodes Go Public Been wronged and want results? Want to hold the powers that be accountable? Go Public wants to hear from you. Submit Your Story Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now