CBC News | The National Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Currently Selected: The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More CBC News | The National Loaded The National Currently Selected: Home Watch The National At Issue Podcast More Latest Video Live in 5 hours Live The National Welcome to The National, the flagship nightly newscast of CBC News. in 5 hours Video 5:55 Video Seniors go on adventure of a lifetime thanks to charity Two Halifax women recently went on a trip of a lifetime in Sable Island, located in the Atlantic Ocean, with the help of a charity that grants unfulfilled wishes to seniors. November 20 Video 2:53 Video Desperate efforts underway to protect B.C. community from flooding Volunteers are working around the clock to fill sandbags to protect the small community of Yarrow, B.C., as water levels continue to rise. November 20 Video 8:03 Video COVID-19: Your questions about vaccines and kids answered Pediatric infectious disease specialists Dr. Fatima Kakkar and Dr. Jacqueline Wong answer parents’ questions about COVID-19 vaccines for kids, including what side effects to expect and the prevalence of “long COVID” in children. November 20 Video 2:59 Video B.C. limits gas for non-essential drivers, work continues to rebuild dike An emergency order in B.C. has limited gas purchases for non-essential drivers to ensure enough supply in the storm aftermath. Meanwhile in Abbotsford, B.C., crews are frantically working to shore up the Sumas River dike before the next deluge. November 20 Video 2:01 Video Archeologist uncovers rock art with help from bison Four petroglyphs, known as a form of rock art, have been discovered at Wanuskewin Heritage Park, a national historic site near Saskatoon. The engraved rocks are evidence of the culture that likely existed before European explorers made contact with Indigenous peoples living on the land. November 20 Video 45:31 Video The National | B.C. rations gas, Vaccine for kids, Kyle Rittenhouse Nov. 19, 2021 | B.C. rations gas and announces travel restrictions in the flood aftermath. Health Canada approves the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for kids ages five to 11. Plus, reaction to the Kyle Rittenhouse verdict. November 20 Video 2:00 Video Europe sees surge in COVID-19 cases, lockdown ordered in Austria A spike in COVID-19 cases across Europe has forced some countries to reimpose restrictions. Austria will enter a nationwide lockdown for 20 days, with plans to become the first European country to mandate COVID-19 vaccinations for everyone by February. November 20 Video 3:36 Video Health Canada approves Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine for kids 5-11 Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine is the first one approved for use in children ages five to 11 in Canada. The federal government says there’ll be enough vaccine shipments to provide a first dose to every child. November 20 Video 1:54 Video Indian farmers celebrate victory after Modi scraps controversial laws Farmers in India are celebrating an unexpected victory as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced plans to scrap three controversial laws that sparked protests for almost a year. November 20 Video 2:21 Video Kyle Rittenhouse found not guilty in Kenosha shooting Kyle Rittenhouse was acquitted of all charges for killing two men and wounding a third in Kenosha, Wis., during protests over police violence against Black people last summer. November 20 Video 2:05 Video Extreme weather events pose challenges for insurance Most people affected by the recent storms in B.C. aren’t eligible for overland flood insurance because of where they live. As extreme weather fuelled by climate change becomes more common in Canada, there are calls for governments to help private insurers in providing proper coverage for homeowners. November 20 Video 2:04 Video Climate change, trade issues discussed at North American Leaders Summit Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met with his U.S. and Mexican counterparts at the first North American Leaders' Summit in five years, where climate change and issues around trade, including a proposed U.S. electric vehicle tax incentive that could hurt Canada’s auto sector. November 19 Video 3:13 Video Shifting waters, border issues create uncertainty after B.C. floods Shifting floodwaters are adding to the uncertainty for many in B.C.’s Fraser Valley. And for those hoping to get home with a U.S. detour are out of luck without a passport. November 19 Video 2:06 Video Renewed Wet’suwet’en pipeline standoff results in arrests Several people were arrested at a barricade put up by Wet’suwet’en members and hereditary chiefs who oppose the Coastal Gas Link Pipeline, despite the project having the support of the First Nation’s elected chiefs. November 19 Video 2:00 Video B.C. First Nation stranded by flooding, crews work to build bridge Construction crews have been working around the clock to build a bridge for the Nooaitch First Nation near Merritt, B.C., which has been completely cut off by flooding. November 19 Video 1:59 Video Approval of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine for kids expected Friday: source Health Canada is expected to approve Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children aged five to 12 on Friday, a source confirmed to CBC News, with the first deliveries likely to occur next week. November 19 Video 3:59 Video What’s being said on both sides of the border about North American Leaders’ Summit CBC News chief political correspondent Rosemary Barton and Washington correspondent Alexander Panetta discuss what Americans are saying about the North American Leaders’ Summit, and what's at stake for for Canada. November 19 Video 3:05 Video Distraught B.C. farmers wait to see full scope of loss after flooding B.C farmers are distraught to see their land covered by floodwater and knowing thousands of animals have been killed and more are trapped without food or water, but the full scope of their losses won’t be known until the water recedes. November 19 Video 1:58 Video Anxiety builds after B.C. flooding as military arrives As the military arrived in B.C. to help those affected by flooding, many residents are becoming more anxious about the availability of goods, damaged infrastructure and what disaster might strike next. November 19 Video 44:25 Video The National | B.C. flood aftermath, Leaders’ Summit, Vaccine for kids Nov. 18, 2021 | Assessing the damage and cleanup from the B.C. floods as hundreds remain stranded. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau holds his first in-person, trilateral meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden and Mexican President Andres Manuel López Obrador. Plus, Health Canada is expected to approve the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for kids on Friday. November 19 Video 14:19 Video What Trudeau, Biden meeting means for Canada-U.S. relationship | At Issue The At Issue panel discusses what unfolded at the North American Leaders' Summit and what it could mean for the Canada-U.S. relationship. Plus, the panellists look at what's happening in the Conservative caucus and what to watch for in next week's throne speech. November 19 Video 2:02 Video B.C. promises to rebuild key transportation routes amid supply chain concerns Damaged rail lines and washed-out highways in rain-ravaged British Columbia have sparked concerns about supply-chain slowdowns, but the premier insists the province will rebuild key connections quickly. November 18 Video 3:21 Video Scramble to protect Abbotsford, B.C., pump station, rescue animals Abbotsford, B.C., has one of the most urgent situations in the province, with concern a vital pump station could be overwhelmed with water and create even more catastrophic flooding. The agriculture sector is concerned about the amount of livestock that will be lost to the floodwaters. November 18 Video 3:01 Video How to prepare for and prevent future devastating floods Adrienne Arsenault talks to environmental risk assessment expert Jason Thistlethwaite about how to better prepare for flooding and how to mitigate damage in the future. November 18 Video 2:02 Video Supply chain, weather events help drive inflation The impact of weather events around the world, as well as ongoing supply chain issues linked to COVID-19, contributed to Canada’s rising inflation rate, but experts say there are signs relief is on the way. November 18 Video 3:22 Video B.C. woman spent 5 hours on top of her car after landslide Chelsey Hughes talks to Ian Hanomansing about surviving one of the landslides along B.C.’s Highway 7 and spending five hours on top of her car waiting to be rescued. November 18 Video 2:30 Video The 100-year-old decision that contributed to Abbotsford, B.C., flooding More than 100 years ago, a lake outside what is now the Abbotsford, B.C., area was drained to create lucrative farmland. Many say that decision is a big contributor to the devastating flooding. November 18Load More Follow The National Like The National on Facebook Follow The National on Twitter Follow The National on Instagram Watch The National Watch the latest episode of The National. Watch The National At Issue Listen to the latest episode of At Issue. At Issue Podcast Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now