CBC Television Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live Currently Selected: TV Watch television television Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More CBC Television Loaded CBC Television Featured Content NEW SEASON Artificial intelligence is thinking more & more like us. So, what separates us from robots? Many say it's the most powerful technology on the planet. We thought empathy, emotions & creativity would always separate us from machines. We were wrong. Watch now. The Nature of Things |6 hours ago NEW SEASON Marketplace: How Not To Fight A Cold / Are Your Winter Boots Too Slippery? Marketplace |November 20 NEW SEASON The Fifth Estate: Finding School No. 4 — WE Charity's donor deception in Kenya the fifth estate |November 19 NEW SEASON 'Then you'll never be bigger than you are': The Dragons ring the bell on this entrepreneur's biggest obstacle Dragons' Den |5 hours ago Video 2:30 Video The 100-year-old decision that contributed to Abbotsford, B.C., flooding November 18 Rick Mercer reflects on poking fun at politicians, 'cancel culture' — and Googling how to write a memoir Radio -Cross Country Checkup |November 14 When we locked down, nature kept going: 4 surprising ways nature 'rebooted' with reduced human activity The Nature of Things |November 18 Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Video 'Well, that's a first': An entrepreneur shows his true colours after hitting a wall with the Dragons Dragons' Den |November 16 New Season War of the Worlds: An alien attack on Earth leaves pockets of humanity struggling to survive Drama |October 8 After her best friend died, this programmer created an AI chatbot from his texts to talk to him again Documentaries -The Nature of Things |November 19| Analysis Something special is going on with Canada's men's soccer team — and it could lead them to the World Cup John Molinaro Sports -Soccer |November 17| New Season Diggstown: Marcie represents a sexual assault victim after police botch the investigation Drama |November 18 So a rock star (Kevin Hearn of the Barenaked Ladies) wanders into an art gallery... Documentary |November 17 Video Video Which judge scares the bakers more: Bruno or Kyla? November 8 Facebook Video Go on a virtual behind-the-scenes tour of the Diggstown set with the stars Drama |November 17 Now Streaming Sort Of Mary Poppins Comedy |November 17 China's hockey team is stacked with Canadians, but could be pulled from Olympics Briar Stewart News -World |November 17 Video Video Why prices for alcohol could go up November 13 Canadian booksellers are struggling, but not in the way you might think Jackson Weaver News -Entertainment |November 17| CBC Kids News Kaya Kanashiro on landing role in new series Sort Of October 6 Cast of Harry Potter will reunite in special after 20 years — but no mention of J.K. Rowling Jill Serjeant News -Entertainment |November 16| Video Video Flooding devastates communities in the B.C. Interior November 17 Canada proudly waving the flag is pure joy for players, team's long-suffering supporters Chris Jones Sports -Soccer |November 17| Why homeowners ran 'the Marathon of Despair' in 1981 Archives |November 15 Season Finale Strays: Shannon makes Hugh & Liam an offer that calls her relationship with Jeffrey into question Comedy |November 17Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now