CBC News | Information about COVID-19 in Canada Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local Currently Selected: COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More CBC News | Information about COVID-19 in Canada Loaded CBC News | Information about COVID-19 in Canada COVID-19: Top Stories Featured Content Areas hit hard by flooding also dealing with regional COVID-19 restrictions B.C.’s health minister is urging British Columbians forced from their homes to get vaccinated against COVID-19 and influenza if they haven’t already done so. Canada -British Columbia |November 20 Some western Quebec elementary students can get COVID-19 vaccine at school clinics Some schools in western Quebec will host vaccination clinics as part of the provincewide effort to provide at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to every child between the ages of five and 11 before the winter holiday. Matthew Kupfer Canada -Ottawa |November 20| THE LATEST Coronavirus: What happened in Canada and around the world on Nov. 19 The U.S. on Friday opened COVID-19 booster shots to all adults and took the extra step of urging people 50 and older to seek one, aiming to ward off a winter surge as coronavirus cases rise even before millions of Americans travel for the holidays. World |November 20 COVID-19 vaccines for children will start arriving Sunday, government says Health Canada has officially approved Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine for children aged five to 11, saying it's more than 90 per cent effective against COVID-19. Catharine Tunney Politics |November 20| Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Sophia Harris Business |November 19 Manitoba reports new 4th-wave high, with 201 new COVID-19 cases Friday Canada -Manitoba |November 19 Lifting mask rule and proof-of-vaccination before spring 2022 would likely spark surge, Sask. doctors warn Guy Quenneville Canada -Saskatoon |November 19| Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now