CBC Music - The Intro Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE Currently Selected: The Intro More CBC Music - The Intro Loaded The Intro Currently Selected: Home About More Latest Meet Mighloe, a rising singer who channels all her fiery emotions through an R&B alter ego The Pickering, Ont., singer opens up about her ongoing journey of musical self-discovery. November 10| Video 15:29 Morgan Toney's breakthrough year: meet the 22-year-old Mi'kmaq fiddler fusing ancestral songs and Celtic tunes A virtual show made him an overnight success, then he recorded and released his debut — all during COVID. July 28| For Maddie Jay, a solo project means a chance to play by her own rules After touring with Naia Izumi, Skylar Grey and Emily Warren, this hired gun needed an outlet for herself. July 21| Whitney K's folk-country-punk gets its official debut with Two Years The Whitehorse-based singer-songwriter is Saroja Coelho's guest on The Intro. July 14| Brittany Kennell wants to transform Montreal into Canada's country music hub The former The Voice contestant was building a career in Nashville until a breakup forced her to come home. July 7| Old meets new in Dacey's cheerful alt-pop Singer-songwriter Dacey Andrada and her bandmate Justin Tecson are Saroja Coelho's guests on The Intro. June 23 Meet PIQSIQ, Inuit-style throat-singing sisters and inventors of a new instrument called 'the death harp' Inuksuk Mackay and Tiffany Ayalik craft spellbinding music performances through improvisation, intimacy, and reclamation. June 25| Kiwi Jr.'s newest album is entering its peak season: jangly pop summer The Toronto-by-way-of-P.E.I. band builds on its critically successful debut with an album that is simultaneously fun-loving and pithy June 9| For Storry, 1 Juno nomination was a fluke. The 2nd was an affirmation The operatically trained pop and R&B singer is up for best adult contemporary album this year against her childhood heroes: Céline Dion and Alanis Morissette. May 12| How Cheng² Duo rediscovered their purpose as classical musicians during the pandemic ‘When there is no ‘next,’ it's up to you to think about what you want to be putting out there.’ May 5 How a bad experience with an edible changed the course of Charlie Houston's life The Toronto musician's upcoming debut EP was inspired by a short stint living in New York. April 28| A Brit in Vancouver: how Iamtheliving is building his musical foundation in Canada The B.C.-based R&B singer is nominated for a Juno Award this year for his debut EP. May 25| Grae got her start as pop's heartbreak kid. Now she's taking her biggest risk yet 'I swear I said in an interview once, 'You'll never hear a love song from me.'' April 14 5 surprising facts about JJ Wilde, the 1st-time Juno nominee dominating the rock charts Would you believe this raspy-voiced, guitar-beating force used to suffer from stage fright? April 7 Meet Clerel, the Montrealer who went from a chemistry degree to performing on Stephen Colbert's The Late Show The Cameroon-born musician's influences range from Stax Records soul to legends Manu Dibango and Francis Bebey. March 31| Does Amaka Queenette's future lie in nursing or as a singing star? The answer is both 'I don't want to be just one thing,' says the emerging singer-songwriter from Pickering, Ont. March 24 Aria Ohlsson's star is swiftly rising. Her secret? Loving herself first As the 23-year-old Toronto-born pop singer says in her new hit, ‘I’m not trying to love you over me.’ March 17| Enter into a Flostate: meet the new R&B duo that makes otherworldly tunes Michael Le and Avery Florence discuss creating music without limitations. March 10| The intimate power of Ocie Elliott's folk music How the B.C. duo went from performing covers in coffee shops to getting its big break on Grey's Anatomy. March 3| For 'melancholy indie' musician Edwin Raphael, inspiration comes from dreams and hour-long showers Due out Feb. 26, the Montreal singer-songwriter's new EP, Staring at Ceilings, is a serene, introspective journey. February 24 Loviet forges ahead to re-introduce herself with addictive, retro pop-rock The Nova Scotia-born, Toronto-based singer delivers a polished, highly danceable project. June 16| Lose yourself in the stirring guitar songs of Igloolik musician Terry Uyarak He plays 2 highlights from his debut album, Nunarjua Isulinginniani, and chats with Saroja Coelho on The Intro. February 3 Dear-God: who is this 19-year-old prodigy? Meet the charismatic young musician mashing up hip hop and hardcore punk. September 23, 2020 Montreal rapper Naya Ali is ready for liftoff Ali's 2-part debut comes with a fully formed sound. Watch her on the latest episode of The Intro. February 18| Moneyphone wants to know: do you have 'Faith'? On its newest mixtape, the young pop duo explores its foundations of friendship and community. January 20Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now