CBC Podcasts | CBC Listen Search CBC Listen CBC Podcasts Critically acclaimed, highly addictive Looking for a Radio show? Discover the best of Radio One and CBC Music in On Demand.Visit On Demand New Releases Sickboy Sickboy is determined to break down the stigma associated with illness and disease. Join Jeremie, Brian and Taylor as they tackle health taboos with people who have experienced them firsthand. Taking the lead from Jeremie's life long battle with Cystic Fibrosis, the three best friends help us understand that sometimes the best way to deal with illness, disease and life is simply to laugh. Trading Babies?! A Really Bad Hospital Oopsie - Feel Good Friday 1:04:11 The Q Interview A new podcast series from the award-winning CBC show Q. Join host Tom Power for an intimate look at big conversations with some of the most inspiring artists and creators of our time. The Q Interview features some guests before they appear on the radio show, along with reflective commentary and extra content that doesn't make it to air. This season you’ll hear about the joke that got Jerry Seinfeld his first big laugh onstage, how Simu Liu landed his role as a Marvel superhero, and why Barbra Streisand has never let anyone tell her what she can or can’t sing… plus much, much more. It’s The Q Interview. Follow and subscribe now! Episode 16: Adele 37:14 Front Burner Front Burner is your essential daily news podcast, brought to you by CBC News & CBC Podcasts. Every weekday Front Burner takes you deep into the stories shaping Canada and the world. Canada’s road to the World Cup 18:51 The Loop The Loop is your guide to the ins and outs of Edmonton. Each week, we take you behind the stories from the CBC Edmonton newsroom, to dig deeper and bring you closer to your city and community. Sexual assault and the NHL 33:03 Power and Politics Every weekday afternoon, Power & Politics host Vassy Kapelos guides Canadians through the country's political news, with a regular cast of political panellists and the continuously unfolding drama of the Canadian political scene. Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for children aged 5 to 11 53:48 CBC News At Issue The National's Rosemary Barton tackles the week's big political stories with Canada's leading political journalists, including Chantal Hébert and Andrew Coyne. A podcast that helps you understand the why behind the moves and decisions of your elected officials. Justin Trudeau's visit to Washington 14:57 Limited Capacity Limited Capacity is a collection of six short stories about the strange and twisted ways we interact with the internet, and with each other. Punctuated with dark humour and surprising twists, each episode blurs the lines between horror, thriller, mockumentary and satire. The stories take on digital appropriation, toxic positivity, a self-help podcast for people who hate self-help and a talking chicken. Each immersive episode is packed with intimate and jarring stories that are both completely familiar and somehow confoundingly alien. It’s like Black Mirror for your ears. From the fiendishly clever mind of Rob Norman, co-creator of the hit podcast Personal Best. The Blue Checkmark 29:52 PlayME PlayME is transforming the way we experience theatre by turning contemporary plays into bingeable audio dramas. Welcome to your Digital Theatre. Introducing: Limited Capacity 31:51 Alone: A Love Story Alone: A Love Story is an award-winning memoir by Michelle Parise. With candour and humour, Michelle delves into the deepest, darkest aspects of her divorce and her new life as a part-time parent, part-time partier. Introducing: Limited Capacity 31:38 Personal Best Personal Best turns tiny goals into grand adventures. From CBC Original Podcasts. Introducing: Limited Capacity 33:15 The Dose The Dose is a weekly look at the health news that matters to you. Dr. Brian Goldman brings you the best science from top experts in plain language. He cuts through the BS and confusion to give you a dose of smart advice that you won’t find anywhere else. What do we need to know about how ventilation and air filtration can reduce the spread of COVID-19? 22:04 Carrie Low VS. Carrie Low trusted police when she reported her horrific rape. But she says they failed to investigate properly, and only succeeded in traumatizing her further. Now she’s setting out on a mission to hold these institutions to account. This all-new investigation is hosted by award-winning investigative journalist Maggie Rahr. Epilogue: A Death in Dartmouth 13:24 Uncover Uncover is an investigative series from CBC Podcasts. Season 9: Evil By Design. Season 8: Brainwashed. Season 7: Dead Wrong. Season 6: Satanic Panic. Season 5: Sharmini. Season 4: The Cat Lady Case. Season 3: The Village. Season 2: Bomb on Board. Season 1: Escaping NXIVM. S11: "Carrie Low VS." Epilogue: A Death in Dartmouth 13:24 Love Me Love Me is a CBC original podcast about the messiness of human relationships. Introducing: Limited Capacity 31:38 Boys Like Me Why are lonely, young men a growing threat to our safety? In 2018, a Toronto man drove a van down a busy sidewalk, killing 11 people and injuring many more. He was linked to the "incel" movement, a dark online world fueled by violent misogyny, extreme isolation and perceived rejection. In the wake of the attack, Evan Mead discovers a disturbing connection to the perpetrator. They were former high school classmates; both outcasts, existing together on the fringes of social acceptance. How did two young men who started in similar circumstances, end up on such drastically different paths? This five-part series examines how socially-isolated young men can vanish into an online world of nihilism and despair that radicalizes them into angry — potentially deadly — misogynists. Hosted by Ellen Chloë Bateman and produced by Daemon Fairless (Hunting Warhead). New episodes every Tuesday. Introducing: Boys Like Me 3:28 Inappropriate Questions Have you ever been curious to know the answer to a question that might be intrusive or too personal for other people? On their biweekly podcast Inappropriate Questions, now in its third season, cohosts Elena Hudgins Lyle and Harvinder Wadhwa make a space for curiosity where guests can unpack the tricky questions they get asked and learn stories about them—whether they ask if polyamorous people cope with jealousy in relationships, if Indigenous people are full Native, or brave the dreaded “have you lost weight” assumption. Created by Hudgins Lyle alongside producers Sabrina Bertsch and Cindy Long, the podcast was built out of a school project while they were studying Media Production in Toronto, Ontario. Bertsch, who’s mixed-race, had been asked a lot of questions about her background and ethnicity after studying abroad for a semester. Long and Lyle, both LGBT, would also get frequently asked about their identity and sexuality. Even if these frustrations served as a jumping-off point for them, they quickly realized that they could also learn about a variety of topics from others too—especially from their parents and older generations. So they auditioned a “dad-like” figure to be a counterpart as co-host. Wadhwa, a project manager with an engineering degree, was the unanimous choice. “Harv was the very first interview we did,” Lyle says. “After the interview, he was like, ‘All right, how many more of these do you have to go?’ You know I'm it, right? You can stop now.’” In each episode, guests share stories about being asked the week’s specific inappropriate question. Though, occasionally, they'll have an expert or academic who can break down more of the historical and social aspect of the question. Both Hudgins Lyle and Wadhwa bridge together their different generational perspectives to challenge themselves and their guests, having casual, yet meaningful conversations that are engaging, unpredictable, and humorous. “Though I've been in Canada for over 20 years, I consider myself an immigrant coming from India,” Wadhwa says. “So, what the show is also trying to do is also bring the balance. Because if everybody's thinking the same way, then we lose out a lot.” Even if they sometimes step into difficult territory, what they both hope to provide with each episode is a starting point for listeners to ease into these topics. “It could be that we've left you with some new ideas and perspectives from the guests who have this lived experience,” Lyle says. “You don't need to change and develop overnight, but hopefully, we've given you a starting place where you can then do your own research or reflection.” Is “What are you going to do now?” good small talk? 38:41 Stuff The British Stole Throughout its reign, the British Empire stole a lot of stuff. Today those objects are housed in genteel institutions across the U.K. and the world. They usually come with polite plaques. This is a series about the not-so-polite history behind those objects. Hosted by Marc Fennell. S2 E5: Strange Fowle 35:03 Pop Chat We help you make sense of the cultural drama blowing up the internet. Every Wednesday, host Elamin Abdelmahmoud (Buzzfeed) is joined by Kevin Fallon (The Daily Beast) and Amil Niazi (Refinery 29, The Cut) to dissect and debate the biggest pop culture stories of the week. Taylor Swift Re-releases Red (Taylor's Version), Why is Everyone Freaking Out About It? 51:36 Tony Ho Award-winning sketch troupe Tony Ho brings their uniquely disturbing brand of sketch comedy straight to your ears. The third season of their acclaimed podcast continues to mine big laughs from the sinister, the sad and the absurd. Funny strange. Featuring Miguel Rivas, Roger Bainbridge and Adam Niebergall. S3 E7: Help Tony Ho GO PSYCHEDELIC with Chris Locke 1:02:03 West of Centre Kathleen Petty sits down with politicians, pundits, and other thoughtful westerners for conversations about the priorities, preoccupations and politics of Albertans and others who are West of Centre. Political and natural resources 47:14 White Hot Hate A violent, white supremacist ideology is spreading around the world, with believers trying to create chaos, in order to seize control. When recruitment posters for a group calling itself The Base start to appear in Manitoba, Winnipeg Free Press journalist Ryan Thorpe decides to go undercover...and infiltrate. Ryan meets with a Canadian Armed Forces reservist trying to establish a local neo-Nazi cell, and discovers that he is planning attacks and destruction abroad. This six-part series follows the extraordinary case through Ryan’s perspective as an infiltrator - while host Michelle Shephard, a veteran national security journalist, explores the rise of white supremacist accelerationism. New episodes released weekly on Wednesdays. Episode 5: The ‘Network Administrator’ 48:11 The Comedy Factory If a joke's worth telling, it's worth repeating. Comedy Factory host Jane Testar collects our favourite skits, commentaries and funny bits that appeared on CBC Radio over the past week. It's an assembly line of humour, safety-tested and priced to move! Car Karma 22:05 Unlocking The Fountain What if there were a pill that could add decades to your life? Would you take it? For thousands of years, people have searched for elixirs that could delay death and extend human life. Could new advances in medicine finally make this a reality? From madcap medicine to cutting-edge science, the quest to unlock the fountain of youth is teeming with dreamers, skeptics and charlatans alike. Episode 8: Dream or Dystopia? 31:50 Player's Own Voice Host Anastasia Bucsis, Two-time Canadian Olympic speedskater, brings her unique backstory to funny, friendly conversations with high performance athletes. No formulaic jock talk here ... these are buddies who understand each other, and help us do the same. Throwing stones with Ben Hebert 31:51 The Next Call with David Ridgen From David Ridgen, the creator of Someone Knows Something, comes the new investigative podcast The Next Call. Tackling unsolved cases through strategic phone calls, the curtain is peeled back. From the victim's family members to potential suspects, the investigation unfolds with The Next Call. The case of Terrie Dauphinais: Episode 2 43:32 Type Taboo Host Emily Brass opens up her diary and shares deep feelings about her recent diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, like denial, guilt and shame. She meets diabetics aged 17 to 76 who help her smash stereotypes and stop the silence around the disease affecting 1 in 3 Canadians. Episode 1: Surprise! You have Type 2 Diabetes 37:12 Chosen Family A podcast hosted by queer, cosmically-destined BFFs Thomas Leblanc and Tranna Wintour. Join the Montreal comedians every other week for deep and spontaneous conversations featuring renowned artists and and up-and-coming creators. S3 E17: Broadway, Baby! with Michael R. Jackson 1:04:40 P.E.I. Pulse P.E.I. Pulse brings together the best audio from CBC P.E.I.'s airwaves. Host Mitch Cormier shares interesting stories about Islanders and the things that matter to P.E.I. every week. #117: Family war items, Afghan family to PEI and Lennox Island vets 29:18 The Pit When Sheree Fertuck’s truck is found abandoned, suspicions grow around what happened to her. This CBC investigation uncovers a story of guns, violence, and loss -- and of the gravel pit that could still hold clues about her disappearance. E12: Just between you and me 37:35 Escaping NXIVM NXIVM (pronounced "Nexium") calls itself a humanitarian community. Experts call it a cult. Uncover: Escaping NXIVM is an investigative podcast series about the group, its leader Keith Raniere and one woman's journey to get out. From CBC Podcasts and CBC News. Introducing: The Next Call with David Ridgen - The Case of Terrie Dauphinais 35:35 Someone Knows Something Host David Ridgen joins victims' family members as they investigate cold cases, tracking down leads, speaking to suspects and searching for answers. S1: Adrien McNaughton. S2: Sheryl Sheppard. S3: Dee & Moore. S4: Greavette. S5: Kerrie Brown. S6: Donald Izzett Jr. Introducing: The Next Call with David Ridgen - The Case of Terrie Dauphinais 35:35 Missing & Murdered: Finding Cleo Where is Cleo? Taken by child welfare workers in the 1970’s and adopted in the U.S., the young Cree girl’s family believes she was raped and murdered while hitchhiking back home to Saskatchewan. CBC news investigative reporter Connie Walker joins the search to find out what really happened to Cleo. Introducing: The Next Call with David Ridgen - The Case of Terrie Dauphinais 35:35 Sports Talk Celebrated sports broadcaster John Hancock combs through four decades of contacts, dialling up top Canadian athletes and people in the sports world to chat about how sports have shaped their lives. Episode 37: Mac Morrin 15:33 Brainwashed Brainwashed investigates the CIA’s covert mind control experiments – from the Cold War and MKULTRA to the so-called War on Terror. It’s the story of how a renowned psychiatrist used his unwitting patients as human guinea pigs at a Montreal hospital, and the ripple effects on survivors, their families, and thousands of other people around the world. It also examines the cultural impact — how the CIA brought LSD to America and inadvertently created counterculture influencers such as author Ken Kesey and poet Allen Ginsberg. It’s an exploration of what happens in times of fear, when the military and medicine collide. And what happens when the survivors fight back. Introducing: White Hot Hate 36:51 Sanctioned: The Arrest of a Telecom Giant The arrest of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver in December 2018 placed Canada in the middle of a global trade war. Stephen Quinn narrates a story of international intrigue set against a dramatic battle to dominate the economies of the future. Episode 13: The Final Chapter 41:18 The Flamethrowers “The Flamethrowers” captures the punch-you-in-the-mouth energy and sound of right-wing talk radio. Host Justin Ling takes us from the fringe preachers and conspiracy peddlers of the 1920s to the political firestorm that rages today. With humour and candour, Ling examines the appeal of broadcasters like Rush Limbaugh, who found a sleeping audience, radicalized it, and became an accidental kingmaker — culminating in the election of Donald Trump. Introducing: White Hot Hate 36:16 Hunting Warhead How do you take down a criminal network that’s hidden in the shadows? How do you rescue child abuse victims who could be anywhere in the world? Hunting Warhead follows the journalists and police on a global mission to expose the darkest corners of the internet. What they discover shocks them. Host Daemon Fairless tracks down the investigators, survivors and criminals themselves. A co-production of CBC Podcasts and the Norwegian newspaper VG. Introducing: White Hot Hate 37:07 A Death In Cryptoland When the young CEO of Canada’s largest cryptocurrency exchange is reported to have died while honeymooning in India, it sets off a cataclysmic chain of events that would leave about 76,000 people out of a quarter of a billion dollars and a trail of conspiracy theories around whether Gerald Cotten is dead or alive. A Death in Cryptoland is an original podcast series about a crypto-tycoon, his secret past, his sudden demise, and an online sleuth’s obsession to unravel the truth behind QuadrigaCX. Hosted by Takara Small. Introducing: White Hot Hate 37:07 The Village Transgender women — and trans sex workers in particular — know what it means to be marginalized, overpoliced, and underprotected. In season two of The Village, host Justin Ling investigates the stories of two women, Alloura Wells and Cassandra Do, whose deaths remain unexplained, and whose cases expose the systems that failed them. Introducing: White Hot Hate 37:07 Life Jolt Life Jolt — prison slang for a life sentence — examines the lives of women navigating Canada’s correctional system. Our team gained unprecedented access to the Grand Valley Institution prison — the federal pen for women in Ontario — for a full year. We followed women going into prison for the first time, spoke with lifers who have been there for years, and parolees as they left. Hosted by Rosemary Green, a former inmate herself, Life Jolt focuses on individual women’s stories and the realities of prison life, and explores a wide range of issues including parenting behind bars, segregation, the over-representation of Indigenous women, addiction, trauma and the many obstacles of reintegration. Introducing: Written Off 42:34 Evil By Design More than 80 women from around the world have accused the fast-fashion mogul Peter Nygard of rape, sexual assault and human trafficking in incidents across four decades and at least four countries. He denies it all, and claims his accusers are lying as part of a vast conspiracy. The Winnipegger had built a sprawling international retail empire over the past 50 years — but now, Nygard's professional achievements are being overshadowed by a sinister personal life, earning him the moniker, ‘Canada’s Jeffrey Epstein’. Host Timothy Sawa has been an investigative journalist at the CBC for more than two decades. For almost half that time, he’s been part of a team investigating Peter Nygard and defending his journalism in court. Now, he helms a new podcast that asks the key questions: Who are the women and men who have stepped forward? Which systems failed them? And how did Nygard get away with it for so long? Introducing: Carrie Low VS. 27:19 Satanic Panic Throughout the 1980s, Satanic cults were widely believed to be preying on children — torturing and terrorizing them as part of dark rituals. Across North America, there were hundreds of false allegations, scores of unjust criminal trials and countless lives torn apart. But never any real proof. By the early 90s, the panic reached the tiny Prairie town of Martensville, Saskatchewan. And nearly 30 years later, the people touched by it all are still picking up the pieces. So what happened? And why do so many still believe to this day? Uncover: Satanic Panic investigates. Introducing: Carrie Low VS. 27:19 Telling Our Twisted Histories Words connect us. Words hurt us. Indigenous histories have been twisted by centuries of colonization. Host Kaniehti:io Horn brings us together to decolonize our minds– one word, one concept, one story at a time. Introducing: Stuff the British Stole 36:13 Recall: How to Start a Revolution The 1950s & 60s saw a wave of radical movements. Che Guevara and the Cuban Revolution. The Black Panthers. Quebec and Canada had the FLQ — a showdown that dissolved into crisis. By October 1970, there were soldiers in the streets, communities on edge, kidnapping and terror in the headlines. But those frightening weeks were just the crescendo of a wave of terror and violence that was nearly a decade in the making. This series will reveal the stories of that time through immersive storytelling and the people who lived it: the bomb disposal expert on defusing live explosives, the survivors of terror, their families, and the radicals themselves. Introducing: Stuff the British Stole 36:17 The Secret Life of Canada The Secret Life of Canada is a history podcast about the country you know and the stories you don't. Introducing: Stuff the British Stole 36:28 Party Lines A political primer for every kind of concerned citizen co-hosted by Rosemary Barton and Elamin Abdelmahmoud. From CBC News and CBC Podcasts. Alberta’s COVID crisis and what’s topping Trudeau’s agenda 27:46 Spirit to Soar: Where We Come From “Spirit to Soar: Where We Come From” is a limited-run podcast companion to Tanya Talaga’s debut documentary “Spirit to Soar: Mashkawi-manidoo bimaadiziwin.” This four-part podcast is told first in Anishinaabemowin by Elder Sam Achneepineskum and then in English by Jolene Banning. The documentary will be available via CBC Gem on Sept. 17, 2021 in Anishnaabemowin and in English on Sept. 24, 2021. Ep. 4: Fire and Tobacco 20:22 Unforked Unforked picks apart the food we eat to reveal the culture and politics baked into it. Long-time restaurateur and journalist Samira Mohyeddin is your host and maitre’d. You’ll hear sticky conversations with passionate eaters. Nothing is off the table. Food as a Love Language 27:08 This Place Based on the acclaimed graphic novel anthology, This Place is a 10-part journey through one-hundred and fifty years of Indigenous resistance and resilience. Through dramatizations and interviews, along with your host and time-guide storyteller Rosanna Deerchild, the series reveals the heroes, battles, triumphs and traditions which live outside and beyond the national story we have been taught ... to learn, to share, and to heal the future of "this place" we call Canada. kitaskînaw 2350 27:35 Pieces Since the day he was old enough, Jeremy knew he was different. A mix of Indigenous and white heritage, he has experienced life through both vantage points – as well as the stereotypes. Join 19-year-old Jeremy Ratt on a journey of self discovery as he seeks to understand his roots and all of the distinct “pieces” that form who he is today. S2 E5: Reciprocity and strength in sharing stories 1:04:51 Recovering Filipino Host Jim Agapito is a "bad Filipino." The Filipino-Canadian filmmaker can't speak Tagalog and is stumped by some of the things Filipinos do and believe. Join Jim on this enlightening, joyful, and surprising 10-episode mission to recover his culture. Am I still a bad Filipino, Lola? 27:25 World on Fire When your backyard burns, is anywhere safe? Welcome to World on Fire, a podcast that takes us to the front lines of out of control wildfires in Canada, Australia and the United States. Hosts Adrienne Lamb and Mike Flannigan look at what it takes to find hope in the midst of record breaking heat waves, and communities burning to the ground. Hear from exhausted crews battling wildfire after wildfire and find out why experts say this is just the beginning. Wildfires cost us our health, our homes and our communities, yet people everywhere rebuild and not just survive but thrive. EPISODE 7 - Heat 37:48 ???? ?????? (Inuit Unikkaangit) ???? ??????? ???? ???? ???? ?????????? ??????? ??????? ???????????? ????????, ??????? ?????? ???????? ??????? ?????????? ????????? ?????? ?????????. Host and Archivist Mary Powder reunites Inuit with stories from CBC North’s vast Inuktitut language archives by replaying them for the descendants of the original storytellers, some of whom are hearing them for the very first time. ???? ??? ?????????: ?? ??? - Bonus Episode 2: Koonoo Ipirq 16:33 Other People's Problems Real people. Real problems. Real talk. Normally, therapy sessions are totally confidential — but this podcast opens the doors. Hillary McBride and her clients want to help demystify mental health. No actors. No auditions. No artifice. This is what people really sound like when they talk about traumatic births, turbulent divorces, eating disorders and tough childhoods. Guided meditation: The shape of breathing 8:26 Disruption A CBC Calgary podcast exploring the profound challenges of the sudden energy transition. Energy analyst and economist Peter Tertzakian and CBC business journalist Tony Seskus look at human effects of accelerated, large-scale economic change. The Next Generation 48:33 The Story Store The Story Store takes orders from real kids and turns their suggestions into hilarious, fun-filled adventures! Run by CBC Kids hosts Mr. Orlando the Moose and Gary the Unicorn, every Story Store episode features a group of performers bringing original stories to life with fresh takes on genres, sweet songs and lots of laughs. Don’t miss the discussion questions at the end of each episode! Thank You Listeners! 7:55 More with Anna Maria Tremonti More with Anna Maria Tremonti takes you deep into conversation — and to some unexpected places — with high-profile guests and rising stars. Each episode will leave you feeling like you’ve spent an eve ... Introducing: Inappropriate Questions Season 3 42:04 Tai Asks Why Tai Poole is trying to find answers to life’s biggest questions. What happens after we die? What is love? How can we fix climate change? He may not solve them all, but give him a break ... he’s only 1 ... Is it possible to predict the future? 25:51 Mic Drop Teens have a lot to say about this complicated world — are you listening? Mood-swinging, dream-chasing, rule-breaking dramas and adventures. (Because puberty) MIKAEEL’s a class act 13:37 Hard to Stomach How do you decide between buying bread and keeping the lights on? Hard to Stomach focuses on stories from real people facing and fighting against food insecurity in communities across Ontario. Food For (Future) Thought 10:37 Masters of Reinvention: Pandemic Rising The pandemic has been a time of tumultuous change. For some, it has meant personal growth and redirection they could never have imagined. Masters of Reinvention: Pandemic Rising, with Gill Deacon. Prepare to be shaken from complacency and moved to action. Masters of Reinvention: Pandemic Rising: Natasha Seabra 22:30 Muddied Water Who are the Metis? It’s complicated. This podcast explores the history of Metis people in Manitoba, beginning with Louis Riel who was hero to some and traitor to others. Host Stephanie Cram unravels the intricate history of the Metis...and follows the thread from resistance to renaissance. S2 Episode 2: The Buffalo Hunt 20:12 Seat at the Table Friends Martine St-Victor and Isabelle Racicot have in-depth conversations with notable guests from media, sports and pop culture. They capture personal stories about the power of the Black Lives Matter movement, the urgency of this moment, and what it will take to move forward. Being Black in Media with Roxane Gay 44:47 2050: Degrees of Change CBC Meteorologist Johanna Wagstaffe guides a journey to our future in a CBC Vancouver original podcast that explores how our world and lives will adapt to climate change within a few decades. Introducing: World on Fire 37:15 Wiretap You never quite know where WireTap will take you. From a scientist who documents the final words of parrots to what it's like to date Lois Lane after she's broken up with Superman, the minds of Jonathan Goldstein and his friends and family are truly unique. Bad Thoughts 26:13 Back Story CBC News correspondents take you behind the scenes as they cover the biggest events around the world. Personal stories from our reporters who were there while the story was breaking. Introducing: Recall: How to Start a Revolution 32:22 On Drugs Each week, On Drugs looks through the lenses of history, pop culture and personal experience to understand how drugs have shaped our world. Because even if it’s just caffeine or ibuprofen, there’s a good chance you’re on drugs right now. Introducing: Recall: How to Start a Revolution 32:28 Winnipeg Famous Winnipeg Famous gets inside the personal lives of the people who are part of our city's quirky culture. In Winnipeg, instead of six degrees of separation, it's more like three.That smaller pond means people who don’t seek the limelight might find themselves on everyone's radar. Host Bridget Forbes explores the folklore and surprising stories of the people every Winnipegger knows, and who make our city great. Waiting for the Elevator Lady: Cheryl Lashek 29:59 After the Deadline After the Deadline is a new podcast that explores one of the biggest stories of the week in a way that deepens our connection as Manitobans. It also reveals what's behind the journalistic decisions that make or break a story. Episode 12: Cue the band 20:20 Picking Up The Pieces After Somali-Canadian journalist Hodan Nalayeh died in a suicide attack in Somalia in July, her podcast recordings with Windsor's Fartumo Kusow on single motherhood fell mute. Picking Up The Pieces combines Hodan Nalayeh's original recordings with present-day recordings of co-host Fartumo Kusow. Bonus Episode - Reflections from Hodan's family 5:18 This is not a Drake podcast Breaking down seminal moments in Drake's career to explore the broader history and evolution of hip-hop, R&B, gender dynamics, and Black culture. Hosted by Ty Harper. Prologue 12:04 They & Us What is ‘gender identity’? How is it different from ‘gender expression’? What about ‘non-binary’? Join host Faith Fundal (formerly Wil Fundal) as they explore these questions alongside people who find themselves navigating the world of preferred pronouns, trans rights and the quest to be recognized for who they are. Episode 6: Family ties 35:26 Kiwew K?wew is a five-part podcast in which Governor General award-winning author David A. Robertson dives into his family's history and mysteries as he discovers and connects with his Cree identity. Episode 5: The future 20:34 ?? (Wiih'teh - Cree) ?? ??? ??????? ???????, ???? ???? ? ???? ?? ????? ????? ? ??? ????? ? ? ?????? ??? ?? ??????? ???????? ???? ?? ?? ????? ? ????? ?? ??? ? ????? ?? ??? ? ???? ?? ????? ?????? ???? ? ???? ??? ? ? ??????? ??? ?????? ???, ?????? ?? ?????? ?? ?? ?????? ????? ??? ??????? ? ? ?????????? ??????????? ??? ????? ??? ???? ??? ?? ?? ? ?????????? Wiih’teh is CBC’s first podcast in East Cree. Join hosts Betsy Longchap and Mary Shem to explore the nuances, humour, and beauty of the language, share stories and learning, and hear from guests about how the Cree language is evolving. In each episode, we delve into the origins, meanings, and dialectical differences of specific vocabulary on a different theme, from paranormal activity to new technology to how to describe drizzle. ?? 9 Ouwah! 19:29 Walking Wascana Take an audio tour of some of Regina's beloved spaces courtesy of The Morning Edition. S2 E7 Reflecting on Regina: The Lobby Gallery 3:54 The Current Weekly A weekly collection of the most insightful, in-depth interviews and audio documentaries from CBC Radio's flagship morning program, The Current Meditate, ditch the news & call your friends: How to cope during the COVID-19 pandemic 38:00 Asking For It A queer contemporary take of the Goldilocks tale: about love, music, and breaking the cycle of abuse. Goldie escapes a chaotic childhood only to go from a partner who starves her of love to a partner who nearly drowns her in it, before learning to be just right on her own. From CBC Podcasts and Mermaid Palace. Produced by award-winning podcast creator Kaitlin Prest featuring writer/director Drew Denny. EP. 1: Meet Goldie 24:53 Meet The Riders Host Peter Mills takes fans beyond the post-game news conference and gets players to share their own personal stories. It’s a unique look at the personalities behind Saskatchewan’s CFL team. It’s a podcast that refuses to “give it 110 per cent.” Ep 12: LJ McCray 17:24 Killers: J pod on the brink Host Gloria Macarenko delves into our fraught love affair with the iconic and endangered Southern Resident Killer Whales who have become political poster children for climate change. What’s killing J ... Episode 4: “The Water is the Starting Point” 30:27 Slumtown A battle is brewing in Edmonton's inner city. Neighbours are terrified. Fights, overdoses and crime spill out from problem houses, many owned by a small group of people connected by one notorious landlord. CBC’s Elizabeth Hames investigates. EPISODE 1 - The Neighbours 29:20 The Band Played On This investigative series unravels a complicated web of five decades of historical sexual abuse involving dozens of teens–preyed upon by three teachers. Warnings were ignored, abuse continued, and the ... E1: The Gun 40:15 Inside the Junos We pull back the curtain on Canada's premiere music awards show and go deeper into the top winning songs with a Canadian master musician. S2 E1 Chilly Gonzales: Songs In The Key Of Eh - Can't Feel My Face 4:40 The Shadows Kaitlin Prest, creator and host of the Prix-Italia winner The Heart, presents the first audio fiction from CBC Podcasts. The Shadows is a story about the anatomy of a relationship: a crush, a choice, ... Episode 1: Romantic 44:48 SOLD! CBC Vancouver journalist Stephen Quinn’s love letter/Dear John letter to the city he once adored. Sold lays bare the anguish and the impact of the housing crisis as it threatens to rip the city apart. Stephen explores the role foreign investment plays in all of this and whether we have a hope of solving it. Relationship Status: It’s complicated. Episode 7 - Heaven help us 1:14:15 Boushie In 2016 Colten Boushie, a young Indigenous man, was shot and killed on a farm in rural Saskatchewan, inciting racial tensions across the province. This is the story of that man and the white farmer, Gerald Stanley, who was charged in his death. Boushie episode 7 21:40 The Fridge Light Join top food writer Chris Nuttall-Smith for an obsessive, fascinating journey through the hidden stories of the things we eat. Each episode chows down on one food phenomenon, revealing the unexpected cultural ingredients. Part science, part business, part psychology — always fresh and delicious. Catch of the Day 39:05 Ambushed A well-liked couple - an RCMP officer and a kindergarten teacher - are gunned down in a small, Alberta town. Twenty years later, the mystery still lingers. Who killed Lorraine McNab and Peter Sopow? A six part podcast investigates, hearing from cops who worked the case, and family who harbour their own suspicions. Episode 6 - Another killing, a final suspect 20:57 New Fire From remote reserves to bustling big cities, join Urban Native Girl Lisa Charleyboy as she brings you to the surprising heart of the conversations important to Aboriginal youth. Young and Indigenous in the city 27:37 Montreapolis Host Steve Rukavina takes you into the spaces of people making modern Montreal. The Refugee 32:36 Fault Lines A catastrophic earthquake hits Canada's West Coast. In Fault Lines CBC Vancouver Seismologist Johanna Wagstaffe guides you through two disastrous scenarios so you can prepare yourself, your family, and your neighbours. Episode 1 - Ripples in a Pond 26:02 Stay up-to-date with the latest and best audio content from CBC Listen delivered to your inbox every two weeks. Enter your email address FAQ + Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use © CBC/Radio-Canada 2021. All rights reserved. Version | 1.9.5 CBC Listen Media Player 0:00 0:00 Now Playing:  ,  Skip to next track: