CBC News - Latest Canada, World, Entertainment and Business News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links Currently Selected: News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Currently Selected: Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More CBC News - Latest Canada, World, Entertainment and Business News Loaded CBC News - Latest Canada, World, Entertainment and Business News Featured Content A week after flooding hit B.C., federal ministers to provide update as severe weather looms A week after flooding hit B.C., federal ministers to provide update as severe weather looms Watch news conference live at 4 p.m. ET 5 minutes ago Calgary father killed in mudslide 'lived and breathed rugby,' friend says January 1, 1970 Residents in Princeton, B.C., sort through flood-ravaged homes January 1, 1970 Severe impacts of flooding created by perfect storm of circumstances January 1, 1970 Federal ministers update state of emergency in B.C. now Live New How is the B.C. flooding disaster affecting you? January 1, 1970 Photos B.C. cleans up, begins rebuilding after disastrous flooding January 1, 1970 For B.C.'s salmon, floods represent another challenge to survival January 1, 1970 Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai tells Olympic officials she's 'safe' in Beijing home Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai has taken part in a 30-minute video call from Beijing with International Olympic Committee officials and told them she was safe and well, the Olympic body said on Sunday. Sports -Tennis |32 minutes ago New From the Rock to Fraggle Rock: N.L. director takes on reboot of iconic TV show When Jordan Canning learned she'd be interviewing for a director role on the reboot of popular kids' series Fraggle Rock, she couldn't contain her enthusiasm. But that moment was nothing compared to the excitement of working on the actual set. Canada -Nfld. & Labrador |20 minutes ago| 5 out of 6 winter boots fail slip test on ice, Marketplace finds Biomedical engineers tested Merrell, Sorel, Kamik, Ugg, Timberland and WindRiver boots 7 hours ago New U.S. admiral warns of China threat and urges allies to work and train more closely The United States and its allies should move more urgently in the face of rapidly evolving Chinese military tactics, the new U.S. commander of the Indo-Pacific region has warned the Halifax International Security Forum. Politics |6 hours ago| Opinion Jason Kenney pleads for unity as his leadership is under increasing scrutiny The political vultures are eager to pick at the carcass of Alberta Premier Jason Kenney – even though the premier is not politically dead. But as the most unpopular premier in the country with a disapproval rate around 80 per cent, he is most decidedly wounded. Canada -Edmonton |2 hours ago| THE FIFTH ESTATE WE Charity misled donors about building schools in Kenya, records show Canada |2 hours ago 71-year-old semi-trailer driver dead, 13 injured in collision with bus on B.C. highway Canada -British Columbia |3 hours ago THE LATEST Thousands march in Belgium as Europe gripped by protests against COVID-19 measures World |1 hour ago| First COVID-19 vaccines for children to arrive in Canada on Sunday Politics |1 hour ago| Fiancée of Jamal Khashoggi urges Justin Bieber to cancel F1 show in Saudi Arabia Entertainment |4 hours ago U.K. taxi driver calls it a 'miracle' he survived passenger's bomb blast World |1 hour ago B.C.'s salmon face uphill challenge after massive flooding on South Coast Canada -British Columbia |6 hours ago| PLAYER'S OWN VOICE Climate change is crushing athletes and I want sports organizations to sound the alarm Sports -App POV |November 18 Late diagnosis of tumours in children collateral damage of COVID-19, doctors say Radio -White Coat - Black Art |12 hours ago| Sudan's military leaders reinstate deposed PM, say political detainees will be released World |4 hours ago RCI is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service, forging bonds between Canadians and citizens of the world visit Radio Canada International Live WATCH: CBC News Network Stream CBC News Network on CBC Gem News |November 15 Feedback or complaints regarding the application of CBC Journalistic Standards and practices? learn more Must Watch now Must Watch - 10 videos 0:40 How COVID caused this Santa to fly south before Christmas2 days ago 3:53 Death toll from Lillooet, B.C., mudslide rises to 421 hours ago 8:03 COVID-19: Your questions about vaccines and kids answered2 days ago 3:57 UN, White House call on China to give proof of Peng Shuai's whereabouts1 day ago 5:55 Seniors go on adventure of a lifetime thanks to charity2 days ago 1:08 Nigerian art installation finds the beauty in plastic pollution2 days ago 1:29 Government drops PCR testing requirement for fully vaccinated Canadians returning after less than 72 hours abroad2 days ago 2:05 Specialist focuses on key concerns for pediatric use of COVID-19 vaccine2 days ago 2:05 As many as 60 people — and pets — rescued so far in B.C. floods: search manager2 days ago 3:59 What’s being said on both sides of the border about North American Leaders’ Summit3 days ago More CBC News How the legacy of the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples lives on, 25 years later Canada |8 hours ago Some parts of Canada are facing a Santa shortage this year James Dunne Business |3 hours ago| Royal Fascinator Passing the royal baton: How more duties are gradually shifting from the Queen to the younger generations Janet Davison World |12 hours ago| Video Many teens still struggling with condensed school schedules, but relief is coming — for some Joseph Pugh Canada |4 hours ago| Canadian Armed Forces forces help rescue thousands of chickens from flooded B.C. farm November 21 B.C. urges residents of province's North Coast to prepare for severe weather Canada -British Columbia |November 21| Analysis The Trudeau government wants a new trade pact with Southeast Asia. It won't be easy Janyce McGregor Politics |12 hours ago| MINORITY REPORT New Parliament, old traditions: Here's what to expect when MPs return this week Ryan Maloney Politics |12 hours ago| Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing, 56, dies following struggle with COVID-19 Canada -Sudbury |November 20 Video, photos of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted online Joe Mcdonald Sports -Tennis |November 21| Editor's Note What happened behind the scenes of our WE Charity investigation Brodie Fenlon Editor's Blog |November 20 Tens of thousands protest COVID-19 restrictions, vaccine requirements across Europe World |November 20Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now