CBC Books Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch books CBC Literary Prizes Canada Reads Canada Writes Reading Lists This Place Contact Us More CBC Books Loaded CBC Books Featured Content Q&A Sarah Raughley's fantasy YA novel The Bones of Ruin weaves a tale of race and identity in the Victorian era The Ontario author of Fate of Flames spoke with Shelagh Rogers about the legacy of Black identity in real-life and speculative fiction. Radio -The Next Chapter |November 19| In his new novel, Crossroads, Jonathan Franzen explores crises of faith and family in 1970s America The bestselling American novelist and essayist spoke with Eleanor Wachtel about religion, belief and personal history. Radio -Writers & Company |November 20| 5 writers make 2021 CBC Poetry Prize shortlist Read the five works contending for $6,000 from the Canada Council for the Arts and a writing residency at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity. The winner will be announced on Nov. 24, 2021. CBC Books CBC Literary Prizes |November 18| Fall Reading List 34 great Canadian books to check out in fall 2021 As the weather gets cooler, warm up with one of these great Canadian books. CBC Books October 8| Lauren B. Davis ponders tragedy, forgiveness and coping with difficult people with novel Even So Radio -The Next Chapter |November 19| If you liked It Never Ends by Tom Scharpling, you'll love Meg Remy's Begin by Telling Radio -The Next Chapter |November 19 Norma Dunning wins 2021 Governor General's Literary Award for English-language fiction Jane van Koeverden November 17 L.M. Montgomery's classic Anne of Green Gables named most translated Canadian book Vicky Qiao November 18| Listen Musician Joey Serlin felt creatively recharged after reading Born to Run by Bruce Springsteen Radio -The Next Chapter |November 19 Listen Shawn Hitchins's memoir The Light Streamed Beneath It is a reflective look at life, death and sexuality Radio -The Next Chapter |November 19 Q&A Staying focused on craft is why André Alexis completed quincunx exploring faith, place, love, power and hatred Ryan B. Patrick November 16| Suzanne Evans and TV chef Bob Blumer among winners for Taste Canada Awards celebrating Canadian food writing Vicky Qiao November 17| Canadians Omar El Akkad, Myriam J. A. Chancy & Linda Rui Feng longlisted for $43K contemporary fiction prize Vicky Qiao November 16| Q&A Why Canada Reads inspires Lisa Moore to 'read everybody' CBC Books November 17| Toronto Reel Asian Film Festival to release anthology book, (re)Rites of Passage, on 25th anniversary Vicky Qiao November 16| Short Story Advent Calendar returns — and there's a kids edition this year Vicky Qiao November 15| Life of groundbreaking Indigenous poet Pauline Johnson detailed in one-woman musical News -Canada -British Columbia |November 14 The bestselling Canadian books for the week of Nov. 7-13, 2021 CBC Books November 15| Suzanne Simard wins Banff Mountain Book Competition's grand prize for memoir Finding the Mother Tree Vicky Qiao November 15| 'Comic Book Collector' virtual event showcases Canada's history in comics Isha Bhargava News -Canada -London |November 6 Celebrated Sto:lo writer and activist Lee Maracle dead at 71 CBC Books November 11 Saskatoon writer helps finish book recounting 1979 Montreal Expos season Bryan Eneas News -Canada -Saskatoon |November 8| Canadian poet and broadcaster Phyllis Webb dead at 94 CBC Books November 12| Q&A Megan Gail Coles's Satched is a poetic look at the trauma, grief and joy of life on the East Coast Radio -The Next Chapter |November 12| The art of writing memoir with Vivian Gornick, Ferdinand Mount and Kathryn Harrison Radio -Writers & Company |November 15|Load More Follow CBC Books Like CBC Books on Facebook Follow CBC Books on Twitter Follow CBC Books on Instagram Governor General's Literary Awards Visit page Scotiabank Giller Prize Visit page Books Series The Next Chapter Host Shelagh Rogers speaks with iconic Canadian authors and rising literary stars about the stories and ideas that intrigue and inspire them. Visit Show Site Writers & Company Host Eleanor Wachtel explores in-depth the lives, thoughts and works of distinguished writers from around the world. Visit Show Site Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now