CBC News | Being Black in Canada Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More CBC News | Being Black in Canada Loaded CBC News | Being Black in Canada Being Black in Canada Featured Content New short film made in Edmonton focuses on history of Brazilian martial art form capoeira Martial arts instructor Reni Lima Ferreira has been teaching the techniques and history of capoeira to Edmontonians since moving to the city 21 years ago.  Canada -Edmonton |8 hours ago Online exhibit shows how Alberta's history is Black history Learning Black history is essential to understanding the formation of Alberta, according to a historian at the University of Alberta.  Liam Harrap Canada -Edmonton |November 20 Dalhousie University reserving 40 nursing seats for Indigenous, Black students Nova Scotia's Dalhousie University says it is setting aside 40 seats in its nursing program for Indigenous and Black students as part of its effort to help make the healthcare workforce more diverse in the province. Aly Thomson Canada -Nova Scotia |November 19 Canadian universities, colleges sign pledge to address anti-Black racism A group of universities and colleges across Canada are signing the Scarborough Charter, a pledge to fight anti-Black racism in post-secondary institutions. Canada |November 18 Historic Halifax Black church seeks $1.5M as renos plagued by hidden oil tank, asbestos Haley Ryan Canada -Nova Scotia |November 18| Teacher who wore blackface to school 'no longer employed' by TDSB, superintendent says Canada -Toronto |November 18 How a community health centre boosted cancer screening for its Black and immigrant patients Tashauna Reid Health |November 17 Follow Being Black in Canada Follow Being Black in Canada on Instagram A message from CBC's Executive Vice-President English Services on the Being Black in Canada project CBC's executive vice-president of English services Barbara Williams says, "This is a time of reckoning. A time, I believe, that is long overdue. And it carries with it both enormous opportunity and responsibility, to listen, do the work, and make it right." News |August 31, 2020 Video Watch the CBC News Being Black in Canada broadcast special on CBC Gem News |August 31, 2020 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now