CBC Documentaries Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch documentaries CBC Docs The Nature of Things CBC Docs POV The Passionate Eye Short Docs documentary Channel More CBC Documentaries Loaded CBC Documentaries Featured Content NEW SEASON Artificial intelligence is thinking more & more like us. So, what separates us from robots? Many say it's the most powerful technology on the planet. We thought empathy, emotions & creativity would always separate us from machines. We were wrong. Watch now. The Nature of Things |6 hours ago I come from a 'rainbow family': We are white, Haitian and Heiltsuk My culture teaches me that kinship and belonging are not about appearance, blood or biology documentary Channel |November 19| After her best friend died, this programmer created an AI chatbot from his texts to talk to him again Eugenia Kuyda’s project was the spark behind virtual friend app Replika that’s used by more than 10 million people around the world The Nature of Things |November 19| Video This documentary takes a deep dive into the lives of N.L.'s mobile workers A new Absolutely Canadian film offers an intimate look into the daily reality of mobile workers in Newfoundland and Labrador. Angela Antle News -Canada -Nfld. & Labrador |October 3| New Season Nature's Big Year: The surprising ways pandemic lockdowns affected our planet The Nature of Things |November 14 Video 1:40 'I love her and see her as a real woman.' Meet a man who 'married' an artificial intelligence hologram The Nature of Things |November 19| Now Streaming Two thousand Canadians suffered a bitter four-year period inside Japanese POW camps Documentary |November 10 Follow CBC Docs Follow CBC Docs on Instagram Like CBC Docs on Facebook Follow CBC Docs on Twitter Subscribe to CBC Docs on YouTube Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now In Depth When the world locked down, nature kept going: 4 surprising ways nature 'rebooted' with reduced human activity The Nature of Things |November 12| Now Streaming The Oxy Kingpins: How drug companies orchestrated the opioid crisis & made huge profits The Passionate Eye |November 12 The important lesson we should've learned from Canadians who were WWII PoWs in Japan Docs |November 8 Now Streaming The Dissident: The untold story of the murder that shook the world The Passionate Eye |November 5 Now Streaming Inside the Great Vaccine Race The Nature of Things |November 5 How does an mRNA vaccine actually work? The Nature of Things |November 5| New 'I know why Jamal was killed': Saudi activist in Canada says hacked phones led to Jamal Khashoggi's murder The Passionate Eye |November 5| Point of View We need to end subsidies to the fossil fuel industry now: David Suzuki The Nature of Things |November 4| Our Changing Planet Collection November 2 Profile 6 young Canadians inspiring a generation of climate activists The Nature of Things |June 3| In Depth How COVID-19 mRNA vaccines were created in under a year and what it means for the future of disease The Nature of Things |November 5| NOW STREAMING Dreamland: The Burning of Black Wall Street The Passionate Eye |October 29 Doc shines light on dark side of Alberta oil & gas: orphan wells News -Canada -Calgary |October 4 Analysis Arctic sea ice is moving toward extinction The Nature of Things |November 8, 2019 CBC Docs 6 spooky films from CBC Docs Life -Culture |October 27 First Person I was a teenage UFO investigator who explored an infamous alien sighting near Ottawa CBC Docs POV |March 26| Now Streaming Rockin' the Coffin Short Docs |October 23, 2020 Now streaming Fatima in Kabul Short Docs |October 22Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now