CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Currently Selected: Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Currently Selected: Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More CBC Music Loaded CBC Music Trending Carousel Page 1 of 1 now now now now nowEnd of carousel Featured Content Q 'Listen to my side': Adele opens up about 30, divorce and her struggle with fame In a wide-ranging Canadian exclusive interview with Q’s Tom Power, Adele discussed her personal new album, the power of music in tough times, her close friendship with Drake and more. Radio -Q |November 19| The secret to pianist Bruce Liu's Chopin Competition win? Spontaneity 'I was really trying to find new things until the last minute that I was backstage,' he says. Robert Rowat November 19 Reclaimed Northern Voices of the Arctic: Celebrating the sounds of Inuit music Join host Jarrett Martineau to hear stories about the languages, lands and culture of the Inuit from Alaska and the Northwest Territories all the way east through Nunavut, Quebec, Labrador and Greenland. Radio |November 19 The true story of Canada's reggae capital In the '60s and '70s, Toronto's Little Jamaica was the 2nd largest producer of reggae music in the world, next only to Kingston, Jamaica. CBC Music November 18| Avril Lavigne's triumphant return to pop-punk, and 7 more songs you need to hear this week CBC Music November 19| Listen How did the Astroworld music festival turn so deadly, so quickly? Radio -Day 6 |November 15 Adele talks anxiety, weight loss and ending her marriage during Oprah sit-down Jenna Benchetrit News -Entertainment |November 15| Drake vs. Kanye West: a simple guide to a complicated feud CBC Music November 17| Meet Mighloe, a rising singer who channels all her fiery emotions through an R&B alter ego Melody Lau November 10| Georgia Harmer's debut, and 6 more songs you need to hear this week CBC Music November 10| Alanis Morissette is working on a new ABC sitcom inspired by her life CBC Music November 10| Gord Downie's wife, Kaya Usher, announces debut album, out Nov. 17 Melody Lau November 8| Survivors recount chaotic Travis Scott concert as investigators probe 8 deaths in Houston News -World |November 8| NEXT BIG THING How will we experience music in 2050? Radio -Spark |October 29 Garçons' surprising return, and 3 more songs you need to hear this week CBC Music November 3 Drake wants pro women's basketball in Canada — and key sport influencers do too Myles Dichter Sports -Basketball |November 10| Rapper K-Riz survived two unexpected disasters on his journey to Peace & Love CBC Music November 19| Ottawa cellist Bryan Cheng wins 2nd prize at the Geneva International Music Competition Robert Rowat October 28 Song Cycle: How Mother Mother's 'Hayloft' was made Jesse Kinos-Goodin October 28| The Weeknd's collab with EDM icons Swedish House Mafia, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week CBC Music October 27 What ever happened to Geoff Hughes? Andrea Warner November 8 'Betrayed' by opera, this gender non-binary singer finds their own career path CBC Music October 25 Canada's Bruce Xiaoyu Liu has won 1st prize at the 18th International Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition Robert Rowat October 21 Lennon Stella's standout dance track, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week CBC Music October 20| Céline Dion 'heartbroken' to delay opening of Vegas show due to muscle spasms News -Entertainment |October 19|Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now