CBC - Home | Facebook Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home Posts Reviews Videos Photos Events About Community Shop See more of CBC on Facebook Log In orCreate new account See more of CBC on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate new account Not now CommunitySee All 600,331 people like this 689,853 people follow this AboutSee All Contact CBC on Messenger www.cbc.ca/help Media/News Company Page TransparencySee more Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Canadian Broadcasting Corporation is responsible for this Page. People 600,331 likes Related Pages Althia Raj Journalist New York Times Journeys Product/Service canada.com Website Canadaparadise Sports British Columbia News. Website Freshdaily Interest Pulse Beat & Mood Notes App Page Sobeys Grocery Store Global Sports Media/News Company Drag965 Automotive Repair Shop Insurance Store Insurance Broker Indigenous Fashion Week Toronto Interest CBC News Media/News Company Global News Media/News Company The Globe and Mail News & Media Website CBC Toronto Broadcasting & Media Production Company CTV TV Network Art by Samantha Williams-Chapelsky Artist CBC News: The National Media/News Company Ghoulish Girls Clothing Store Pages Liked by This Page White Coat, Black Art on CBC Radio CBC Manitoba Eddy Rogo Workin' Moms Kim's Convenience Book of Negroes CBC Radio: Unreserved Still Standing CBC Quebec Hudson on CBC CBC Indigenous Michael CBC Now or Never CBC Quirks Shoot The Messenger TV Series Bellevue on CBC Canada's Smartest Person In the Making CBC Yukon Missing & Murdered: Finding Cleo PagesBusinessesMedia/News CompanyCBC English (US) · Français (Canada) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Meta © 2021 Shop CBC Retro Socks $12.99 Gem Pattern Hoody $57.00 Gem Logo Dog Tanktop $21.00 See All Posts CBC 1 hr · The moon will start to noticeably dim just after midnight on Friday, as it begins to slip into the Earth's shadow, or umbra. Skygazers are in for a treat overnight between Thursday and Friday, when much of the planet will be able to see the longest partial lunar eclipse in almost 600 years. The only hitch is that for much of Canada, the peak of the eclipse will happen in the middle of the night. cbc.ca The moon passes through the Earth's shadow tonight. It's an eclipse you don't want to miss | CBC News Skygazers are in for a treat overnight between Thursday and Friday, when much of the planet will be able to see the longest partial lunar eclipse in almost 600 years. The only hitch is that for much of Canada, the peak of the eclipse will happen in the middle of the night. Skygazers are in for a treat overnight between Thursday and Friday, when much of the planet will be able to see the longest partial lunar eclipse in almost 600 years. The only hitch is that for much of Canada, the peak of the eclipse will happen in the middle of the night. CBC 3 hrs · This cookie advent calendar is an adorable - and entirely edible - holiday baking project. | CBC Life Get the recipe: http://bit.ly/GingerbreadAdventCalendar It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close Gingerbread Advent Calendar Posted by CBC 186,546 Views See All See More