CBC Archives Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch archives Arts & Entertainment History Sports More CBC Archives Loaded CBC Archives Featured Content When CDs made vinyl obsolete ... and how it came back There was something 'magnificently innocent' about vinyl LPs. Maybe that's why, after CDs drove records into 20 years of obscurity, vinyl started to make a comeback. November 18 Rock art found at Wanuskewin Heritage Park as 4 petroglyphs excavated Four petroglyphs were found at Wanuskewin Heritage Park north of Saskatoon. Only one will be on display at the park starting Friday. Wanuskewin Heritage Park will be making its submission for consideration for UNESCO world heritage designation by the end of 2022. Pratyush Dayal News -Canada -Saskatoon |November 19 Graveyard statue's missing head mysteriously reappears after two decades For more than two decades, a white, Italian marble statue of a young woman has stood headless over the Gray’s Island Cemetery in the southeastern New Brunswick village of Hillsborough. This week, the head returned to the graveyard. Alexandre Silberman News -Canada -New Brunswick |November 19| Video 3:05 Video Canadian children's entertainers Sharon, Lois & Bram release first new album in 21 years The revered Canadian children's group Sharon, Lois & Bram have released their first new album in more than 21 years, a series of live recordings from North American concerts they played between 1989 and 1995. News -Entertainment |November 19| The 'crazy' fight in France over the domestic VCR market in 1982 November 19 L.M. Montgomery's classic Anne of Green Gables named most translated Canadian book Vicky Qiao Books |November 18| Hundreds of Blackfoot artifacts are held in British museums. Here's how one project bridges the gap Joel Dryden News -Canada -Calgary |November 18 From 1981: What should the TTC do with all its extra cash? November 18 When Nintendo fought a device that gave Mario 'new superpowers' November 18 Video 2:51 Video Loved ones remember legendary producer, director Bob Schulz Talia Ricci News -Canada -Toronto |November 19 Why the weather mattered when Canada tried reaching the World Cup in 1985 November 10 A fight over lunch money in the House of Commons in 1981 November 17 How Quebec brought in big bucks through 'the beaujolais bandwagon' November 17 Cast of Harry Potter will reunite in special after 20 years — but no mention of J.K. Rowling Jill Serjeant News -Entertainment |November 16| Video 2:29 Why history enthusiasts are mapping an Algonquin portage route in downtown Ottawa Ash Abraham News -Canada -Ottawa |November 16 The snowstorm that made some Calgarians smile and others scowl November 16 Why homeowners ran 'the Marathon of Despair' in 1981 November 15 As the DVD turns 25, why people still love collecting them — even with a shelf life Joseph Pugh News -Entertainment |November 18| Atlantic Voice Expedition '69: What happened to a bunch of British teens during one wild Newfoundland summer News -Canada -Nfld. & Labrador |November 14| CBC Montreal's 1st female TV anchor Kathy Keefler remembered for her 'brilliant mind', 'big heart' Sabrina Jonas News -Canada -Montreal |November 14| This group of international students is seeking out the 'untold' history of Nova Scotia Nicola Seguin News -Canada -Nova Scotia |November 13 The plan to roll out metric gradually throughout the 1970s November 12 Reflections on the music business from a young Neil Young November 12 Western museums need to return stolen artifacts to 'get on the right side of history,' says art historian Radio -The Current |November 11| What London really looked like in 1966 November 4Load More Follow Archives Follow Archives on Twitter Like Archives on Facebook Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now