CBC Life Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch life CBC Life Shows Food Style Home Wellness Culture Work & Money Pets Giveaways & Submissions Video Travel More CBC Life Loaded CBC Life Featured Content Season's greetings! 21 sets of holiday cards for spreading cheer this year Best bought and personalized in batches to get your tidings out in time. Holiday |November 18| 31 hot and hearty vegetarian meal ideas for the long, cold season ahead Meat-free meal ideas to bookmark for blustery days. Food |November 17| q 'Listen to my side': Adele opens up about 30, divorce and her struggle with fame The singer’s interview with Q’s Tom Power covered many subjects, from parenthood to her friendship with Drake. Culture |November 19 VIDEO 2 quick and cozy DIY gifts to make for yourself this holiday season Warm things up with these great ideas from withwendy. Life Video |December 17, 2019| CBC Toronto Meet 3 Ontarians who discovered it's never too late to learn the language of your ancestors Culture |November 19 Should you expect your partner to give you emotional support? It depends Janet Ho Culture |May 19| Flowers by the numbers: How to make a small, medium and large arrangement Kim Francisco Home |November 3| Follow CBC Life Like CBC Life on Facebook Follow CBC Life on Instagram Follow CBC Life on Pinterest Subscribe to CBC Life on YouTube Follow CBC Life on Twitter Add CBC Life on Snapchat Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Watch Now now Watch Now - 10 videos 1:20 This cookie advent calendar is the most adorable — and entirely edible — holiday baking project4 years ago 2:43 Step inside this restored 1920s mansion first owned by infamous rum-runner Harry Low2 years ago 4:37 Don't discard the good stuff — use your sourdough discard to make these quick and easy herb crackers2 years ago 15:33 Fit Class: 15 minute boot camp style workout pt. 24 years ago 2:09 Meet Apollo, a rescued wild stallion who’s learning to trust humans again2 years ago 5:54 A 5-minute yoga flow you can do while your morning coffee brews2 years ago 4:21 Step inside a restored Elizabethan manor with 30ft ceilings... and a baby goat!3 years ago 27:12 ASMR for while you work: Light on talk, heavy on triggers from ALB in Whisperland2 years ago 2:46 Step inside this luxe chalet in the Laurentians that’s built between two cliffs2 years ago 2:47 How to put together a perfectly-organized pantry1 year ago Podcast Playlist True crime and mysteries from the 19th century to today Culture |November 19 CBC News Partial lunar eclipse will be longest since the reign of Henry VI Culture |November 18 Your Hanukkah holiday dinner menu is here! Food |November 16, 2018| Pop Chat Why is everyone freaking about Taylor Swift's re-release of Red? Culture |November 18 WATCH Season 5 Episode 5: Pies and Tarts Week The Great Canadian Baking Show |November 15 Technical Bake Pastéis de Nata The Great Canadian Baking Show -Recipes |November 15| Opinion|CBC Saskatchewan Spoon theory: How a cutlery metaphor can help explain the energy it takes to live with disabilities Culture |November 18 Running outside this winter? Experts share hot tips for cool temps Chloe Alleyne Wellness |November 27, 2020| CBC Arts How to turn your life story into a memoir (even if it's just for yourself) Culture |November 17 Signature Bake Mile-High Lemon Blueberry Meringue Pie The Great Canadian Baking Show -Recipes |November 15| Activity gifts they'll immerse themselves in Truc Nguyen Holiday |November 20, 2020| Your horoscope for the week ahead: Expect a high-energy week fuelled by optimism and enthusiasm Phil Booth Culture |November 15| 30 free and fantastic internet activities — round 2 Janet Ho Culture |March 3| 11 pizzas that prove there's a slice for every situation Michelle Villagracia Food |November 10| Inappropriate Questions Is 'What are you going to do now?' good small talk? Culture |November 17 A dozen delicious dishes for your celebration menus Shayma Owaise Saadat Holiday |November 12, 2020| The Current What the future of dining could look like post-pandemic Food |November 17 New to trail running? Follow these tips to get the most out of the activity Janet Ho Wellness |October 22|Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now