CBC.ca - watch, listen, and discover with Canada's Public Broadcaster Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker More CBC.ca - watch, listen, and discover with Canada's Public Broadcaster Loaded CBC.ca - watch, listen, and discover with Canada's Public Broadcaster Featured Content The 100-year-old decision that contributed to Abbotsford, B.C., flooding 20 hours ago 2:30 Video The 100-year-old decision that contributed to Abbotsford, B.C., flooding More than 100 years ago, a lake outside what is now the Abbotsford, B.C., area was drained to create lucrative farmland. Many say that decision is a big contributor to the devastating flooding. November 18 Urgent dike repairs needed to prevent more flooding in Abbotsford, says mayor Karin Larsen News -Canada -British Columbia |4 hours ago| Alec Baldwin had no reason to fire gun on Rust set, new lawsuit alleges Andrew Dalton News -Entertainment |November 17| British poet Alexander Pope made a mythical, mineral-filled grotto — and it's getting restored Radio -As It Happens |1 hour ago| B.C. residents urged not to panic-buy as bare shelves fuel food security angst Jon Hernandez News -Canada -British Columbia |10 hours ago Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Sports -Tennis |37 minutes ago THE FIFTH ESTATE WE Charity misled donors about building schools in Kenya, records show Matthew Pierce News -Canada |November 18 RCI is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service, forging bonds between Canadians and citizens of the world visit Radio Canada International Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now CBC News Updated Mammoth cleanup to begin in wake of devastating B.C. floods News |10 minutes ago As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country News |2 hours ago Biden offers sympathies to people affected by B.C. floods, says Canada/U.S. in sync on climate change News |3 hours ago 10 injured in 'significant' explosion at Vancouver Island military base Bridgette Watson News -Canada -British Columbia |2 hours ago| Live Radio showing 1 of 37 options Live Radio RegionUse arrow keys to select a region from the suggested list CalgaryAB EdmontonAB KamloopsBC KelownaBC Prince GeorgeBC VancouverBC VictoriaBC WinnipegMB FrederictonNB MonctonNB Saint JohnNB Corner BrookNL Goose BayNL Grand FallsNL St. John'sNL InuvikNT YellowknifeNT HalifaxNS SydneyNS IqaluitNU BarrieON KingstonON Kitchener-WaterlooON LondonON OttawaON PeterboroughON SudburyON Thunder BayON TorontoON WindsorON CharlottetownPE MontrealQC North QuebecQC Quebec CityQC ReginaSK SaskatoonSK WhitehorseYT play More on Become a CBC Member Create a free account to stream exclusive series and live local TV from across Canada  Create an account Must Watch now Must Watch - 10 videos 3:22 B.C. woman spent 5 hours on top of her car after landslide20 hours ago 4:16 Aerial view of flood damage in B.C.'s Fraser Valley23 hours ago 2:38 After her best friend died, a programmer created an AI chatbot from his texts so she could speak to him again | The Machine That Feels14 days ago 3:21 Scramble to protect Abbotsford, B.C., pump station, rescue animals20 hours ago 2:43 Step inside this restored 1920s mansion first owned by infamous rum-runner Harry Low2 years ago 8:35 'The river just took it under' says B.C. couple who lost entire farm to floodwaters1 day ago 5:52 What Canada's win over Mexico means for World Cup chances1 day ago 4:34 Could this be the biggest Fast Money comeback win?10 months ago 2:00 3 major B.C. highways washed out by flood waters2 days ago 3:46 Nurse helps save family trapped in B.C. landslide2 days ago More from CBC Canadian captain Ghislaine Landry retires from rugby 7s after incredible career Sports -Rugby |3 hours ago| Researchers identify 102 children who died at Nebraska residential school  Radio -As It Happens |1 hour ago No wrongdoing by N.B. officer who killed Chantel Moore, provincial police commission finds Aidan Cox News -Canada -New Brunswick |1 hour ago Listen 'Results-Only Work Environment': a workplace strategy where time is no longer relevant Radio -Cost of Living |7 hours ago Ontario to offer take-home rapid COVID-19 tests to students over winter break News -Canada -Toronto |4 hours ago| Quebecer whose family is being sued by Hudson's Bay over Zellers brand says he's 'not surrendering' Radio -Cost of Living |November 18 Video 'The river just took it under': B.C. family can only watch as flood sweeps away home News -Canada -British Columbia |November 17 5 writers make 2021 CBC Poetry Prize shortlist CBC Books Books -CBC Literary Prizes |8 hours ago| The moon passes through the Earth's shadow tonight. It's an eclipse you don't want to miss Jaela Bernstien News -Science |3 hours ago| Point of View Benign neglect parenting is the best parenting of all Parents |November 18 Hamilton youth charged in $46M theft of cryptocurrency from U.S. resident Samantha Craggs News -Canada -Hamilton |November 17 Woman whose car was struck by landslide in B.C. can barely believe she survived Radio -As It Happens |1 hour ago| Federer set to miss Wimbledon, dreams of 1 more Slam final: 'In sport, miracles exist' Sports -Tennis |November 17| When we locked down, nature kept going: 4 surprising ways nature 'rebooted' with reduced human activity The Nature of Things |November 18 THE BUZZER What's next for the Canadian men's soccer team? Jesse Campigotto Sports -Soccer |November 17| Rick Mercer reflects on poking fun at politicians, 'cancel culture' — and Googling how to write a memoir Radio -Cross Country Checkup |November 14Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now