Chilling Tales from the Whispering Wind - Dungeon Masters Guild | Dungeon Masters Guild Login My Library Wishlists Cart 0 New Account (or Log In) Hide my password Get the newsletter Subscribe to get the free product of the week! One-click unsubscribe later if you don't enjoy the newsletter. Log In with Facebook Log In (I am new here) Forgot password? Remember me Error: No match for email address or password. Password forgotten? Click here. Log In with Facebook Advanced Search Author: Artist: Price: $to $ Search Quick Preview /gs_flipbook/flip.php?xml=/demo_xml/334022.xml&w=500&h=324 Full?size Preview https://watermark.dmsguild.com/pdf_previews/334022-sample.pdf Chilling Tales from the Whispering Wind From  Goblin Ink Press, Clayton Whittle, Cassandra Macdonald, DM Sarah, Sebastian Y?e, Lucas Zellers, Vall Syrene, Ric H. Prager, David Damon, Jeff C. Stevens, and David Berg ADD TO WISHLIST > PDF $9.95 $9.95 Average Rating (2 ratings) Update Note: Whispering Wind now has  a screenreader version for accessibility. Season's Greeting from the Deadliest Place on the Prime Material Plane! It's the most wonderful time of the year! Oh the demons from hell and the NPCs yelling oh dear! Yes the ho-ho-ho-horROR is HEEEEERE! A chill runs up your spine... Welcome to the Whispering Wind, weary traveller. Snow melts from your boots as you step past the bubbling stew and towards the hearthfire. The burdens of Icewind Dale are hard on the adventurer, but your horrors have only just begun once you've set foot in the Whispering Wind Inn.  Rumors of terrible creature from across the land seem to flock to this place like reindeer to rooftops. Snowdrifts the size of a fire giant block the exit as yet another tale of horror begins...     Walking in a Winter Terrorland in Icewind Dale Step into a world of horror with 17 nail-biting adventures. Chills and thrills await you and your players as they hunt down or simply try to survive ravenous monsters, creatures from other planes, and tormented spirits. This supplement provides the Dungeon Master with plug-and-play adventures for all levels, and set in an arctic theme perfect for supplementing the Icewind Dale setting. These adventures can be dropped into nearly any campaign for a scary one-shot or used as their own campaign.   Perfect for Side quests in your Rime of the Frostmaiden Campaign These improv-emphasis tales of horror can be picked up and DM’d with only a few minutes of preparation. Take your party to a new level of terror with -        The Horror at Fort Crystal Lake: a slasher-film inspired ghost story where the adventures need only survive a night in a haunted fort -        The Caskmaster: a tongue-in-cheek monster hunt romp through a brewery -        What Lies Beneath: a classic creature feature of alien monsters picking off the village one by one -        Tentacles of Terror: a red herring adventure; will the party realize who the true monster is in time? -        And many, many more…   Podcast Style Writing These adventures are inspired by the improv-heavy play we have all come to know and love in excellent podcasts and streams. The creators of Whispering Winds hope to both empower and inspire improvisational storytelling and adventuring by providing you with the most critical aspects of the story and letting you mold it to your party. Countdowns to Doom Each adventure runs on a countdown, a dramatic tool for helping you guide the sense of impending doom.  This critical piece gives you, the DM, a list of events that happen as the evil powers you control advance their plans while putting narrative pressure on the party. Woe be unto the adventuring party that lets the countdown reach its final stage! Custom Art and Monsters Feast your eyes (but don’t be feasted upon by) horrible creatures like: -        The Fear Demon: a shape-shifting demon which literally feeds on fear -        The Glacier Elemental: a force of nature that crushes everything in its path -        Seithe: a sentient suit of armor bent on world domination -        The Star Leech: an otherworldly bodysnatcher -        Leshana: the world's most renowned rock and roll bard...but now she's posessed by a demon! -        And more! Hag Campaign & Whispering Winds Inn The four adventure mini-campaign provides a perfect setting through which to introduce the monsters in this book. It can also be run by itself as a background campaign lasting levels 3 through 14!   Check out the Interview on Nerdarchy! Listen to Sebastian's Interview on Making a Monster Podcast    More from this Title's Contributors      Customers Who Bought this Title also Purchased   Reviews (0) Discussions (1) Please log in to add or reply to comments. Ken C November 01, 2020 8:36 am UTC ... before has 1 ‘f’ Reviews See All Ratings and Reviews Browse Categories Content DMs Guild Guild Adept D&D Adventurers League D&D Classics Storyline Wild Beyond the Witchlight Van Richten's Guide to Ravenloft Rime of the Frostmaiden Descent into Avernus Ghosts of Saltmarsh Waterdeep Candlekeep Mysteries Tomb of Annihilation Tales from the Yawning Portal Storm King\'s Thunder Curse of Strahd Rage of Demons Elemental Evil Tyranny of Dragons Product Type Adventures Core Rules Bundles Character Options Gear/Magic Items Resources for DMG Creators RPG Media Tabletop Essentials Board/Miniature Games Gift Certificates Theme Aquatic Arctic Dungeon Planar Underdark/Subterranean Urban Wilderness Comedy Family Oriented Festive Horror Intrigue Mystery Pulp Action Solo/Single-Player Setting Nonspecific/Any Setting Ravenloft Dark Sun Theros Dragonlance Eberron Forgotten Realms Greyhawk More Settings Ravnica Plane Shift Planescape Edition Original Edition (OD&D) Basic/Expert 1st Edition 2nd Edition 3rd Edition (d20 System) 4th Edition 5th Edition Format PDF Phone PDF Print ePub Virtual Tabletop Languages English Español Français Italiano Deutsch Português Svenska Polski Other Price Pay What You Want Free $ to $  Publisher See all titles Publisher Website   Follow Your Favorites! Sign in to get custom notifications of new products!  Recent History Chilling Tales from the Whispering Wind Product Information Social Copy Link Tweet This Author(s) Goblin Ink Press, Clayton Whittle, Cassandra Macdonald, DM Sarah, Sebastian Y?e, Lucas Zellers, Vall Syrene, Ric H. Prager, David Damon, Jeff C. Stevens, and David Berg Artist(s) Vall Syrene Rules Edition(s) 5th Edition Pages 72 Format Original electronic Scanned image These products were created by scanning an original printed edition. Most older books are in scanned image format because original digital layout files never existed or were no longer available from the publisher. For PDF download editions, each page has been run through Optical Character Recognition (OCR) software to attempt to decipher the printed text. The result of this OCR process is placed invisibly behind the picture of each scanned page, to allow for text searching. However, any text in a given book set on a graphical background or in handwritten fonts would most likely not be picked up by the OCR software, and is therefore not searchable. Also, a few larger books may be resampled to fit into the system, and may not have this searchable text background. For printed books, we have performed high-resolution scans of an original hardcopy of the book. We essentially digitally re-master the book. Unfortunately, the resulting quality of these books is not as high. It's the problem of making a copy of a copy. The text is fine for reading, but illustration work starts to run dark, pixellating and/or losing shades of grey. Moiré patterns may develop in photos. We mark clearly which print titles come from scanned image books so that you can make an informed purchase decision about the quality of what you will receive. Original electronic format These ebooks were created from the original electronic layout files, and therefore are fully text searchable. Also, their file size tends to be smaller than scanned image books. Most newer books are in the original electronic format. Both download and print editions of such books should be high quality. File Last Updated: October 31, 2020 This title was added to our catalog on October 30, 2020. Publisher Dungeon Masters Guild Publisher Website See all titles (26729) Need help? Customer Questions (FAQ) DMsGuild Creator Questions? Submit Suggestion Contact us Account Login/Create Account Account My Library Affiliate System Create Content for your Favorite Games Information About Us Privacy Policy Our Latest Newsletter Product Reviews New Product RSS Feed Newsletter RSS Feed English Deutsch Español Français Italiano Português Russian US $ € Can$ £ ¥ Au$ ????? (?) ?