China 'not aware' of  issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai | CBC Sports Loaded Tennis China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai China's Foreign Ministry on Friday says it wasn't aware of the controversy surrounding tennis professional Peng Shuai, who disappeared after accusing a former top official of sexually assaulting her. Social Sharing U.N. human rights office calls for investigation into sexual assault allegation The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 19, 2021 9:29 AM ET | Last Updated: November 20 Peng Shuai of China serves during a 2019 tennis match in Wuhan, China. (Wang He/Getty Images) China's Foreign Ministry on Friday stuck to its line that it wasn't aware of the controversy surrounding tennis professional Peng Shuai, who disappeared after accusing a former top official of sexually assaulting her. Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told reporters that the matter was "not a diplomatic question and I'm not aware of the situation." The ministry has consistently disavowed knowledge of the issue since Peng made her accusation more than two weeks ago. The 35-year-old former top-ranked player in women's doubles won titles at Wimbledon in 2013 and the French Open in 2014. She also participated in three Olympics, making her disappearance all the more prominent with Beijing set to host the Winter Games starting Feb. 4. Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Statement attributed to Chinese tennis player raises concerns about her safety, pro tour CEO says White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Friday that Chinese authorities should "provide independent and verifiable proof of her whereabouts and that she is safe." U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman tweeted: "We are deeply concerned by reports that tennis player Peng Shuai appears to be missing, and we join the calls for the PRC to provide independent, verifiable proof of her whereabouts. Women everywhere deserve to have reports of sexual assault taken seriously and investigated." Liz Throssell, a spokeswoman for the U.N. human rights office in Geneva, said Friday it was calling for "an investigation with full transparency into her allegation of sexual assault." "And I think we would say that that should be the case into all allegations of sexual assault. It is really important to ensure accountability, to ensure justice for the victims," she said. WATCH | More on missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai:  What we know about the missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai 3 days ago 3:44CBC’s Rob Pizzo is joined by CBC News Senior Correspondent Saša Petricic to discuss the latest on missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai and what impact it could have on potential boycott discussions surrounding the Beijing Winter Games. 3:44 The International Olympic Committee declined to comment Friday, saying in an emailed statement: "Experience shows that quiet diplomacy offers the best opportunity to find a solution for questions of such nature. This explains why the IOC will not comment any further at this stage." Peng wrote in a lengthy social media post on Nov. 2 that she was forced to have sex three years ago with Zhang Gaoli in his home despite repeated refusals. Zang, 75, is a former vice premier who was a member of the ruling Communist Party's all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee. The post was quickly deleted from her verified account on Weibo, a leading Chinese social media platform, but screenshots of the explosive accusation were shared on the internet. Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal Former world No. 1 doubles player accuses Chinese Communist Party official of sexual assault Steve Simon, the chairman and CEO of the Women's Tennis Association, questioned the authenticity of what a Chinese state media outlet said this week was an email intended for him in which Peng said she was safe and that the assault allegation was untrue. It was tweeted by CGTN, the international arm of Chinese state broadcaster CCTV. WATCH | WTA CEO questions authenticity of statement attributed to Peng:  WTA CEO Steve Simon tells CNN he doubts validity of email purportedly from Peng Shuai 3 days ago 4:17Women's Tennis Association chairman and CEO Steve Simon tells CNN he doubts the validity of an email purportedly sent to him by Peng Shuai, in which she recants sexual assault allegations she levelled against a top Chinese government official. Simon also says the WTA is willing to pull their business dealings with China if the tennis star remains unaccounted for. 4:17 The State Council Information Office, which represents the Chinese government, did not respond to emailed questions about Peng's current situation and Simon's doubts about the email. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Statement attributed to Chinese tennis player raises concerns about her safety, pro tour CEO says Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal Former world No. 1 doubles player accuses Chinese Communist Party official of sexual assault Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now