Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai tells Olympic officials she's 'safe' in Beijing home | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai tells Olympic officials she's 'safe' in Beijing home | CBC Sports Loaded Tennis·New Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai tells Olympic officials she's 'safe' in Beijing home Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai has taken part in a 30-minute video call from Beijing with International Olympic Committee officials and told them she was safe and well, the Olympic body said on Sunday. Social Sharing Disappeared after alleging sex assault against ex-leading Communist Party official The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 3:23 PM ET | Last Updated: 27 minutes ago Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai signs tennis balls at a junior event in Beijing on Sunday. According to the International Olympic Committee, Shuai is safe and living in her Beijing home after disappearing from public view Nov. 2 after she alleged a sexual assault against a former leading Communist Party official. (Twitter/@qingqingparis) Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai has taken part in a 30-minute video call from Beijing with International Olympic Committee officials and told them she was safe and well, the Olympic body said on Sunday. The call came amid growing global alarm over Peng. Her appearance at a youth tennis event on Sunday in Beijing and social media posts on her behalf did not fully convince people outside China that she has freedom to act, after she alleged she was sexually assaulted by a former leading Communist Party official. The call, with IOC president Thomas Bach, athletes commission chair Emma Terho and IOC member Li Lingwei — a former vice-president of the Chinese Tennis Association — appears to be Peng's first direct contact with sports officials outside China since she disappeared from public view on Nov. 2. Peng "thanked the IOC for its concern about her well-being," the Switzerland-based Olympic body said in a statement. "She explained that she is safe and well, living at her home in Beijing, but would like to have her privacy respected at this time. That is why she prefers to spend her time with friends and family right now," the statement said. Video, photos of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted online Peng, who played for China at three Olympics from 2008 to 2016, made a sexual assault allegation on social media three weeks ago against a former member of the Communist Party's ruling Standing Committee, Zhang Gaoli. The post was removed within minutes, and the former top-ranked doubles player went missing from public view. She did not respond publicly to calls for information to show she was safe. WATCH | Peng Shuai missing since raising sexual assault allegations:  What we know about the missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai 3 days ago 3:44CBC’s Rob Pizzo is joined by CBC News Senior Correspondent Saša Petricic to discuss the latest on missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai and what impact it could have on potential boycott discussions surrounding the Beijing Winter Games. 3:44 The IOC has been criticized for being relatively silent in public as concern for Peng grew in the past week. It has pursued a "quiet diplomacy" policy with the 2022 Olympics host nation. The Beijing Winter Games open on Feb. 4. Bach has now invited Peng to join him at a dinner when he arrives in Beijing in January, "which she gladly accepted," the IOC said. Terho and Li were also invited. Canada's tennis community reacts to missing Chinese player Peng Shuai More tennis coverage "I was relieved to see that Peng Shuai was doing fine, which was our main concern," Terho said in the IOC statement. The hockey player from Finland represents athletes on the IOC executive board. "She appeared to be relaxed," Terho said. "I offered her our support and to stay in touch at any time of her convenience, which she obviously appreciated." WATCH | UN, White House call on China for proof of Peng's whereabouts:  UN, White House call on China to give proof of Peng Shuai's whereabouts 1 day ago 3:57Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai disappeared after accusing a former senior Chinese politician of sexually assaulting her. The tennis world and international diplomatic community are calling for an independent investigation into her whereabouts and well-being. 3:57 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Video, photos of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted online Canada's tennis community reacts to missing Chinese player Peng Shuai China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation More tennis coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now