Chris Dart - Associate Producer | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch arts CBC Arts About CBC Arts Shows Video Articles More Chris Dart - Associate Producer | CBC Loaded Chris Dart Associate Producer Chris Dart is a writer, editor and digital content all-rounder from Scarborough, Ont. Latest from Chris Dart Governor General's Awards Why Ryan Reynolds just makes movies better Pick any of the goofy action comedies he's been in, and then marvel how real and relatable he makes those roles. November 19 Why do we want to watch comedies that make us cry? The creators of CBC's Sort Of have some ideas By offering more nuanced and character-driven storytelling, the TV dramedy genre has been on the rise. November 8 Who deserved to be memorialized? Dance film New Monuments explores Canada's hidden history The film — streaming now on CBC Gem — uses the language of dance to talk about slavery, colonialism, and the possibility of a better future. October 19 Don't call it reconciliation: These Indigenous and settler artists are teaming up for 'conciliation' "The word itself sort of speaks to the idea that we've done it several times, but really we haven't." September 29 Perplexed by the Certified Lover Boy cover art? The experts explain Two artists and an academic on the significance of 12 "pregnant woman" emojis. September 3 UNDISRUPTED Opera star Measha Brueggergosman tells the story of struggle and resilience on the East Coast "Forgotten Coast," her instalment in the new CBC Gem series UNDISRUPTED, tackles systemic inequalities. September 2 UNDISRUPTED Four curators were given an orchestra, a film crew, and huge creative freedom. This is what happened Watch spectacular and immersive orchestral mixed-reality performances in UNDISRUPTED, streaming now on CBC Gem. August 27 Welcome to the addictive and high-stakes world of competitive sand sculpting "As soon as I touched the sand and started carving it, I was just like, 'This is what I want to do,'" says Race Against the Tide judge Karen Fralich. Television -Race Against the Tide |July 19 This project turns a derelict building into a world of myth How one aging art deco building became an art exhibit. July 14 How a horse whisperer used social media to bring home her father's beloved animals This Nakoda family doesn’t believe in branding their paint horses, which made it harder to recover them when they were taken from their ranch Television |May 6Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now