Chris Hall - National Affairs Editor | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Chris Hall - National Affairs Editor | CBC Loaded Chris Hall National Affairs Editor Chris Hall is the CBC's National Affairs Editor and host of The House on CBC Radio, based in the Parliamentary Bureau in Ottawa. He began his reporting career with the Ottawa Citizen, before moving to CBC Radio in 1992, where he worked as a national radio reporter in Toronto, Halifax and St. John's. He returned to Ottawa and the Hill in 1998. More by this author Latest from Chris Hall Biden may be open to a carve-out for Canada on electric vehicle tax credit, says ex-diplomat The head of a prominent Canada-U.S. business group says she sees the spark of an agreement to allow Canadian companies to qualify for President Joe Biden’s controversial tax credit for electric vehicles. Radio -The House |November 20 Farmers say they're ready to cut the carbon in Canada's diet — but they need government help The role of agriculture in climate change didn't get much attention at the COP26 summit — much to the chagrin of activists. "The cow in the room is being ignored," one told the Guardian during the two-week gathering in Glasgow. Radio -The House |November 13 Canada's new housing minister faces complex, cross-jurisdictional challenges Ahmed Hussen, Canada's new housing minister, faces a series of complex challenges that cross jurisdictional lines as he attempts to tackle this country's housing crisis. Politics |October 30 Global tax accord could earn Canada up to $4.5 billion per year, says Freeland Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland says Canada stands to make as much as $4.5 billion dollars a year through a landmark deal involving 136 countries that will require the world's largest corporations to pay their fair share of taxes. Politics |October 16 Days of rage: Angry voters brought new tensions to the 2021 campaign trail Scott Simms ran in seven federal elections, winning six of them. And while he came to terms fairly easily with his 264-vote loss on September 20, the long-time Liberal MP is having a harder time accepting the anger he experienced on the campaign trail in his largely rural riding in central Newfoundland. Radio -The House |October 2 Analysis Trudeau made pushing his agenda more complicated with failed bid for majority If Justin Trudeau found the last minority Parliament inconvenient, he might find the next one even more challenging, Chris Hall writes. Politics |September 21 Analysis This election is tight — and last night's debate likely did little to change that They came. They pitched. They argued. The federal party leaders held the first of two back-to-back debates on Wednesday — a spirited and occasionally raucous encounter in French that provided glimpses but no sustained view of the differences among them. Politics |September 9 Analysis In Quebec, no party has an easy path to victory The road to victory in national elections always passes through Quebec. The only question is whether the province with 78 seats to offer comes with roadblocks or a fast lane. Radio -The House |September 4 Federal candidates pitch new wildfire and climate plans to weary British Columbians The wildfires threatening communities in British Columbia's interior are now a dominant issue in this federal election campaign as candidates from all the parties try to win over B.C. voters who are in danger of losing everything. Radio -The House |August 21 Analysis The House: Can Canadian federalism cope with 21st century threats? The Constitution sets out the division of powers between Ottawa and provincial governments. But is it also helping to divide the country as politicians struggle with emerging threats such as climate change, the state of long-term care and the COVID-19 pandemic? Radio -The House |July 3Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now