Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation | CBC Sports Loaded Tennis Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Questions on the well-being and whereabouts of a Chinese professional tennis player, who accused a former top government official of sexual assault, have been met by silence. Social Sharing Peng Shuai hasn't appeared in public since posting allegations The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 10:19 AM ET | Last Updated: 37 minutes ago China’s Peng Shuai serves during a match at the Australian Open in 2019. (Edgar Su/Reuters) A Chinese professional tennis player not seen in public since she accused a former top government official of sexual assault purportedly sent an email claiming she was safe and that the allegation was false, a message that only amplified concerns about her safety and demands for information about her well-being and whereabouts. So far, those calls have been met by silence. Chinese officials have said nothing publicly since the accusation about two weeks ago by Grand Slam doubles champion Peng Shuai that she was sexually assaulted. The first #MeToo case to reach the political realm in China has not been reported by the domestic media and online discussion of it has been highly censored. Steve Simon, the chairman and CEO of the Women's Tennis Association, questioned the authenticity of what Chinese state media said was an email intended for him in which Peng says she is safe and that the assault allegation is untrue. It was posted Thursday by CGTN, the international arm of Chinese state broadcaster CCTV. "I have a hard time believing that Peng Shuai actually wrote the email we received or believes what is being attributed to her," Simon wrote. The statement, he added, "only raises my concerns as to her safety and whereabouts." WATCH | The latest on missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai:  What we know about the missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai 4 hours ago 3:44CBC’s Rob Pizzo is joined by CBC News Senior Correspondent Saša Petricic to discuss the latest on missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai and what impact it could have on potential boycott discussions surrounding the Beijing Winter Games. 3:44 Simon has demanded a full investigation, and the WTA said it is prepared to pull tournaments out of the country if it doesn't get an appropriate response. Top players including Naomi Osaka and Novak Djokovic have spoken out, and the hashtag WhereisPengShuai is trending online. Serena Williams tweeted that she was "devastated and shocked to hear about the news" about Peng. "I hope she is safe and found as soon as possible," Williams wrote. "This must be investigated and we must not stay silent." International Tennis Federation spokeswoman Heather Bowler said Thursday that the governing body is in contact with the Chinese Tennis Association and is liaising with the WTA and the International Olympic Committee. "Player safety is always our top priority and we support a full and transparent investigation into this matter," Bowler wrote in an email to The Associated Press. "While we have not spoken to the player, we are in touch with the national tennis association in China (CTA) in the event they may be able to provide any further information or updates." I am devastated and shocked to hear about the news of my peer, Peng Shuai. I hope she is safe and found as soon as possible. This must be investigated and we must not stay silent. Sending love to her and her family during this incredibly difficult time. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/whereispengshuai?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#whereispengshuai</a> <a href="https://t.co/GZG3zLTSC6">pic.twitter.com/GZG3zLTSC6</a>&mdash;@serenawilliams China has largely suppressed a #MeToo movement that flourished briefly in 2018 and is forging ahead with the Beijing Winter Olympics in February despite boycott calls by activists and some overseas politicians over China's human rights record. Asked repeatedly about the case, China's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said again on Thursday that he is unaware of it. . <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/WhereIsPengShuai?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#WhereIsPengShuai</a> <a href="https://t.co/51qcyDtzLq">pic.twitter.com/51qcyDtzLq</a>&mdash;@naomiosaka Post deleted from Weibo The 35-year-old Peng is a former No. 1-ranked player in women's doubles who won titles at Wimbledon in 2013 and the French Open in 2014. She wrote in a lengthy social media post on Nov. 2 that Zhang Gaoli, a former vice-premier who was a member of the ruling Communist Party's top leadership committee, had forced her to have sex despite repeated refusals three years ago. Statement attributed to Chinese tennis player raises concerns about her safety, pro tour CEO says The post was quickly deleted from her verified account on Weibo, a leading Chinese social media platform, but screenshots of the explosive accusation quickly spread across China's internet. She has not appeared in public since then, raising questions about her whereabouts and whether she is being detained. Zhang, who is 75, dropped from public sight after his retirement in 2018, as is usual for former senior officials. He is not known to have any close connections to current leaders. Peng, right, shakes hands after a match with Canada's Eugenie Bouchard in 2017. The Chinese tennis star made sexual assault accusations against a former top government official. (AFP via Getty Images) Peng's accusation is the first high-profile accusation of sexual assault against a powerful politician in China. Past accusations touched on prominent figures in the non-profit world, academia and media, but never reached the Communist Party's top officials or state-owned companies. News circulates in private social media groups CGTN posted the statement on Twitter, which is blocked in China along with many other foreign platforms such as Google and Facebook. It did not post it on Chinese social media, nor was there any mention of the purported email behind the Great Firewall, which separates the Chinese internet from the rest of the world. Some internet users have circumvented the controls and posted about the news in private social media groups. Freeweibo.com, which records censored posts from Weibo, said searches for "Peng Shuai" and "Zhang Gaoli" were both among the top 10 searched topics on Thursday. Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal More Tennis coverage Searches for Peng Shuai's name on China's Sogou search engine turn up only articles about her tennis career. Her account on Weibo no longer allows comments, and no results turn up if people search for her Weibo account. Peng wrote that Zhang's wife guarded the door during the alleged assault, which followed a round of tennis. Her post also said they had sex seven years ago and she had feelings for him after that. She also said she knew speaking up would be difficult. "Yes, aside from myself, I kept no evidence, no recordings, no videos, only the real experience of my twisted self. Even if I'm destroying myself, like throwing an egg against a rock, or a moth flying into a flame, I will still speak out the truth about us," the now-deleted post said. IOC remarks ahead of Beijing Olympics Her allegation came just three months before Beijing hosts the Winter Olympics, which have been the target of a boycott campaign from multiple human rights organizations largely over China's repression of Uyghur Muslims. The games face a possible diplomatic boycott by the United States and other countries. Rights groups have likened Beijing's 2022 Olympics to Hitler's 1936 Berlin Olympics. China has consistently denied any human rights abuses and says its actions are part of counterterrorism programs. Peng has played in three Olympics. The IOC said Thursday in a statement that "we have seen the latest reports and are encouraged by assurances that she is safe." The allegations come ahead of Beijing hosting the Winter Olympics, which have been the target of repeated calls for boycotts. (Frederic J. Brown/AFP via Getty Images) The Switzerland-based IOC, which derives 73 per cent of its income from selling broadcast rights and another 18 per cent from sponsors, has not criticized China, and often repeats that it is only a sports business and has no remit to act on policies of a sovereign state. The WTA can better afford to bring pressure since it is less dependent on income from China than the IOC or the NBA. The basketball league lost an estimated $400 million US in broadcast rights when China blacked out its games in the 2019-2020 season after then-Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey tweeted in support of protesters in Hong Kong. Simon's statement said Peng has displayed incredible courage, but that he is still concerned about her safety. "The WTA and the rest of the world need independent and verifiable proof that she is safe," he wrote. "I have repeatedly tried to reach her via numerous forms of communications, to no avail." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Statement attributed to Chinese tennis player raises concerns about her safety, pro tour CEO says Muguruza becomes 1st Spanish WTA Finals champion with sweep over Kontaveit Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal More Tennis coverage Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now