Culture - CBC Life Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch life CBC Life Shows Food Style Home Wellness Currently Selected: Culture Work & Money Pets Giveaways & Submissions Video Travel More Culture - CBC Life Loaded Culture - CBC Life Featured Content q 'Listen to my side': Adele opens up about 30, divorce and her struggle with fame The singer’s interview with Q’s Tom Power covered many subjects, from parenthood to her friendship with Drake. Culture |November 19 CBC Toronto Meet 3 Ontarians who discovered it's never too late to learn the language of your ancestors Reconnecting with one's culture can often begin with learning a language. Here's how some are starting out. Culture |November 19 Should you expect your partner to give you emotional support? It depends Two therapists on how to assess your needs and communicate them effectively to your partner. Janet Ho Culture |May 19| Podcast Playlist True crime and mysteries from the 19th century to today We may never know the true identity of Jack the Ripper. But who were his victims? A new podcast retells the serial killer’s story by telling their stories. Culture |November 19 30 free and fantastic internet activities — round 2 Janet Ho Culture |March 3| CBC News Partial lunar eclipse will be longest since the reign of Henry VI Culture |November 18 Pop Chat Why is everyone freaking about Taylor Swift's re-release of Red? Culture |November 18 Opinion|CBC Saskatchewan Spoon theory: How a cutlery metaphor can help explain the energy it takes to live with disabilities Culture |November 18 CBC Arts How to turn your life story into a memoir (even if it's just for yourself) Culture |November 17 Inappropriate Questions Is 'What are you going to do now?' good small talk? Culture |November 17 WATCH Season 5 Episode 5: Pies and Tarts Week The Great Canadian Baking Show |November 15 CBC Toronto This Toronto chef uses his grandmother's recipes to reconnect with his Vietnamese roots Food |November 16 Your horoscope for the week ahead: Expect a high-energy week fuelled by optimism and enthusiasm Phil Booth Culture |November 15| Cross Country Checkup Government policy can limit climate change — but so can changing your shopping habits, say experts Culture |November 15 The best card games to play with a standard deck Sebastian Y?e Culture |December 10, 2020| CBC Arts Why do we want to watch comedies that make us cry? The creators of CBC's Sort Of have some ideas Culture |November 12 Pop Chat What is Travis Scott and Drake's responsibility in Astroworld tragedy? Culture |November 12 CBC Books Francis 'Peggy' Pegahmagabow was an Ojibway sniper and war hero — This Place shares his story Culture |November 10 CBC First Person How a public library helped my family cope with the effects of climate change Culture |November 10 Your horoscope for the week ahead: Things will smooth out for you, and what you truly need will come Phil Booth Culture |November 8| CBC First Person I see Bollywood as a connection to home. It lately sees me as a villain Culture |November 10 CBC Books Omar El Akkad wins $100K Scotiabank Giller Prize for novel What Strange Paradise Culture |November 9 CBC British Columbia Beaded poppies are a source of pride, resilience for this Indigenous designer Culture |November 8 CBC Calgary Southern Alberta's Indigenous soldiers honoured in Field of Crosses but some may have been forgotten Culture |November 8 CBC Indigenous He spent 4 years as a WW II prisoner of war. Then, this Métis veteran enlisted again Culture |November 8Load More Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now