Céline Dion 'heartbroken' to delay opening of Vegas show due to muscle spasms | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Céline Dion 'heartbroken' to delay opening of Vegas show due to muscle spasms | CBC News Loaded Entertainment Céline Dion 'heartbroken' to delay opening of Vegas show due to muscle spasms Céline Dion is delaying the opening of her new Las Vegas show and cancelling dates in November and early in the new year due to muscle spasms that have kept her from performing. Social Sharing Singer being evaluated, treated by medical team: statement The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 19, 2021 12:48 PM ET | Last Updated: October 19 Céline Dion, seen performs in Quebec City in 2019, is postponing the start of her upcoming Las Vegas residency due to health issues. It had been set to begin Nov. 5. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) comments Céline Dion is delaying the opening of her new Las Vegas show and cancelling dates in November and early in the new year due to muscle spasms that have kept her from performing. A statement posted on her website on Tuesday said the singer has been having severe and persistent muscle spasms and she is being evaluated and treated by a medical team. "I'm heartbroken by this," Dion said in the statement. "My team and I have been working on our new show for the past eight months, and to not be able to open this November saddens me beyond words." Shows scheduled for the Resorts World Theatre on Nov. 5 through Nov. 20 and Jan. 19 through Feb. 5, 2022, are being cancelled. Tickets are being refunded, with ticketholders of the cancelled dates to have access to rescheduled shows. "I have to focus on getting better… I want to get through this as soon as I can," Dion said. The statement said that her world tour is still scheduled to resume in March 2022. I’m heartbroken by this. My team and I have been working on our new show for the past eight months, and to not be able to open this November saddens me beyond words. Now, I have to focus on getting better… I want to get through this as soon as I can. - Celine xx… <a href="https://t.co/cEDLQt9HDg">pic.twitter.com/cEDLQt9HDg</a>&mdash;@celinedion CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Video 'I feel in charge of my life': Céline Dion on her new tour, music and outlook Celine Dion powers through Ottawa show despite lingering throat virus Céline Dion, Hayley Wickenheiser, David Suzuki, Buffy Sainte-Marie set for Stronger Together pandemic benefit Céline Dion to end Las Vegas residency after 8 years Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now