David Common | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More David Common | CBC Loaded David Common David Common is a host & senior correspondent with CBC News. Latest from David Common MARKETPLACE 5 out of 6 winter boots fail slip test on ice, Marketplace finds Marketplace looked at popular brands for sale in Canada — Merrell, Sorel, Kamik, Ugg, Timberland and WindRiver — to see how some of these companies’ winter boots would fare on a wet, icy surface.  Canada |2 hours ago MARKETPLACE Canadian brands sold clothing from factory suspected of secretly using North Korean forced labour Retail giant Reitmans brought more than 100 shipments of clothing into Canada from a Chinese factory suspected of secretly using North Korean forced labour, a months-long CBC Marketplace investigation has found. The retailer says it has stopped placing new orders with the facility Canada |November 6 MARKETPLACE Real estate agents caught on hidden camera breaking the law, steering buyers from low-commission homes A CBC Marketplace investigation has found that some real estate agents are breaking the law by steering unwitting buyers away from low-commission homes.  Canada |October 18 Estonian PM talks vaccine passports and Russian aggression Estonia's prime minister discussed Russian military threats and Estonia’s nationwide vaccine passport initiative with Power & Politics. Politics |June 2 Power & Politics AstraZeneca doses could go to waste, Ontario pharmacists warn Ontario is rushing to administer thousands of doses of the AstaZeneca COVID-19 vaccine before they expire on Monday. Politics |May 28 Power & Politics China has crushed opposition in Hong Kong, Taiwan fears it is next In the face of an increasingly hostile China, Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu joined CBC News Network's Power & Politics Monday to call on fellow democracies to voice more support for Taiwan. "We cannot allow a democratic Taiwan to be taken over by China," said Wu. Politics |May 26 CNN anchor Jake Tapper talks Canada's vaccine rollout, his new book and the state of U.S. politics CNN's Jake Tapper speaks with Power & Politics about his new book and why he wanted to cover Canada’s vaccine rollout. Politics |May 25 Doug Ford's demand for new pandemic travel restrictions is an attempt to deflect, says Blair Ontario Premier Doug Ford’s recent letter calling on the federal government to further restrict travel into and across Canada is an attempt to deflect attention away from the third wave of COVID-19 currently rampaging through Canada’s most populous province, says Public Safety Minister Bill Blair. Politics |May 14 Possible shutdown of Line 5 not a threat to Canada's energy security: ambassador Canada’s ambassador to the United States says that while the possible shutdown of Line 5 is a serious issue, it is not a threat to Canada’s national energy security. Politics |May 7 Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine not troubled by variants so far, says CEO One of the people behind the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine says he has yet to see any evidence that emerging variants of the disease have found a way to defeat it. Politics |May 4Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now