Diagnosing healthcare's cyber hygiene problem | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Diagnosing healthcare's cyber hygiene problem | CBC Radio Loaded Spark Diagnosing healthcare's cyber hygiene problem While healthcare professionals have been quick to embrace new technologies, they've also been slow to understand cyber threats. Social Sharing "These systems weren't built to be secure." CBC Radio · Posted: Nov 12, 2021 2:38 PM ET | Last Updated: November 12 On Oct 21, 2021, the emergency department of The Kemptville District Hospital, pictured, was temporarily closed because of a cybersecurity incident. (CBC / Radio-Canada) Spark53:52524: Healthcare's Cyber Hygiene Problem According to a global survey of IT professionals from 328 healthcare organizations, 34 percent reported that they were hit by ransomware in 2020 — and most institutions in the sector remain ill-equipped to deal with similar attacks. In October, Kemptville District Hospital, in Ontario, temporarily closed its emergency department after a "cybersecurity incident." Outpatient X-rays and ultrasound appointments were postponed and registration was moved from computer to paper. Newfoundland and Labrador's health network was recently hacked, and thousands of medical appointments and procedures were cancelled. The attackers accessed information about patients and employees from records that went back as far as 14 years. These privacy breaches and the disruptions that follow are part of a larger problem. "As the cyber economy has grown up, as cyber criminals have figured things out, they've come to realize that healthcare data is amongst the most valuable data on the open market. It contains a lot of personal information. It contains a lot of health information that could be dangerous in the wrong hands. It's also highly valuable because healthcare services are so expensive," said Eric Perakslis, the chief science and digital officer for the Duke Clinical Research Institute at the Duke School of Medicine. Eric Perakslis is currently the chief science and digital officer for the Duke Clinical Research Institute. He previously served as the chief information officer and chief scientist of informatics at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. (On the Wall Photography) Perakslis has been working at the intersection of technology and medicine for decades now. And in those years, he's come to understand the benefits and risks, of not just prescription medication, but healthcare technologies — something, he says, clinicians have been slow to evaluate, yet quick to adopt. He says the vulnerabilities lie in the design of the systems used in healthcare facilities.  "These systems weren't built to be secure. Anybody that was building a system for a Swiss bank was building it to be secure. Hospital systems weren't." These systems, he says, are often outdated and contain whole lifetimes of personal and family data. "The older it is, the more it's been studied, the more vulnerabilities have been published and the easier it is to get in. It's no different than that old fence around the farm with a few areas missing where you could sneak in," said Perakslis, who recently co-wrote a book called Digital Health, about the benefits and risks of digital health technologies. He argues that the more we digitize healthcare, the more we expose hospitals — and the people who enter them — to the risks and threats of the internet. It's what is often referred to as an 'attack surface' and the bigger it is, the more entry points bad actors have to access data and cause harm. "A few years ago, I did a little bit of a study and found that the average inpatient in the US hospital was connected to about 15 internet-connected devices," he said. But that connectivity doesn't stop with the devices used in hospitals. With the increased use of third-party health apps to monitor health conditions, information that normally wouldn't be shared outside of a medical record is being stored on largely unregulated apps. Kemptville hospital shuts down ER after 'cybersecurity incident' N.L. patient, employee data stolen in health-care cyberattack When it comes to wearable technologies that track fitness, Perakslis says they've made a big impact on wellness, but are still in the experimental stage for monitoring our actual health and chronic disease management. Even so, they have altered how patients and healthcare providers interact. "I think in general, there's a lot of interest in it. I've been giving the same talk and using the same slide for years. And it's a picture of Pandora and panacea. And no matter where I am, people think it's either going to cure everything, or it's going to unleash chaos and cause all the problems. And the truth is, like everything else in medicine, it's a complex compromise in the middle. And it's up to us to figure out the benefit-risk for patients," said Perakslis. Paying ransom is no guarantee  While the increase in ransomware attacks on healthcare systems has sounded alarms, reports suggest that the frequency of cyberattacks in this field is still low compared to other sectors. "In the last two, three years, there's been a significant increase in the number of cases [of] ransomware attacks. The number of cases, comparing 2019 to 2020, was up 150%. And the amount paid by the victims of these attacks increased more than 300% in 2020," said Benjamin Fung, Canada Research Chair in Data Mining for Cybersecurity and a professor of information studies at McGill University. Benjamin Fung is Canada Research Chair in Data Mining for Cybersecurity and a professor of information studies at McGill University. He previously worked as co-curator of cybersecurity in the World Economic Forum. (Owen Egan) Just recently, the Toronto Transit Commission acknowledged that personal information of up to 25,000 current and former employees was breached in a ransomware attack. The increase in attacks is likely due, in part, to the pandemic and the move to remote work, where computers aren't as secure as those in offices. Though he adds that across the board, attackers are becoming more sophisticated, and the data more sensitive. There are 200,000 new malware samples being released around the world every day, according to a study by Kaspersky Lab, a Russian cybersecurity company. As seen in the aftermath of the 2017 WannaCry attack on the National Health Service in the UK, these incidents are highly disruptive, says Perakslis. "And because of that people actually are willing to pay a lot of money to prevent things like that from happening." But Fung notes that paying the ransom doesn't guarantee regaining access to the data, "60, 70% of organizations actually pay the ransom and among the ones who pay around 65% of them actually get the data back. So there is still a good number that pay and do not get the data back." He says the best way to prepare for this type of attack is to back up data and software frequently, and ensure that the data can be restored from the backup. SPARKAmidst cybersecurity talent shortage, AI is filling the void And while prevention may not be possible, Perakslis says disincentivizing attackers is also part of the solution. "I think healthcare has to bring its basic standards up [so] criminals will go pick on something else." Fung welcomed the government's decision to set up the Canadian Centre for Cybersecurity in 2018, but he says it also needs to invest more resources into training a new crop of cybersecurity professionals to address a shortage across all sectors. Perakslis argues that there is a need for more qualified information security experts in medicine to deal with growing cross-disciplinary threats like ransomware. "With cyber, you actually have an enemy, an adversary that's purposely trying to do things. And that's not a normal thing. Disease was the enemy of medicine, not a well-armed hacker." "Everybody says [technology] is going to bring in more revenue, better care… But I think you always have to wonder that in medicine, every intervention carries a side effect. It may be a benign side effect, but all interventions carry risk. And if you're completely naive to the risks of a technology, you're simply not thinking about it when you put it in."  Written by Samraweet Yohannes. Produced by Samraweet Yohannes and Michelle Parise. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now