Distraught B.C. farmers wait to see full scope of loss after flooding | CBC.ca Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More VideoChannelsHomeNewsSportsArtsLifeArchivesMusicDocs Distraught B.C. farmers wait to see full scope of loss after flooding | CBC.ca Loaded News TV Shows The National Distraught B.C. farmers wait to see full scope of loss after flooding 3 days ago 3:05 Distraught B.C. farmers wait to see full scope of loss after flooding 3 days ago News 3:05 B.C farmers are distraught to see their land covered by floodwater and knowing thousands of animals have been killed and more are trapped without food or water, but the full scope of their losses won’t be known until the water recedes. Recommended for You now now now now now now now The National Live in 5 hours The National The National5 hours 5:55 Seniors go on adventure of a lifetime thanks to charity The National2 days ago 2:53 Desperate efforts underway to protect B.C. community from flooding The National2 days ago 8:03 COVID-19: Your questions about vaccines and kids answered The National2 days ago 2:59 B.C. limits gas for non-essential drivers, work continues to rebuild dike The National2 days ago 2:01 Archeologist uncovers rock art with help from bison The National2 days ago 45:31 The National | B.C. rations gas, Vaccine for kids, Kyle Rittenhouse The National - Full Show2 days ago 2:00 Europe sees surge in COVID-19 cases, lockdown ordered in Austria The National2 days ago 3:36 Health Canada approves Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine for kids 5-11 The National2 days ago 1:53 Indian farmers celebrate victory after Modi scraps controversial laws The National2 days ago Trending Now 1:14 A dad reunites with his 11-year-old daughter whom he hasn't seen for seven years CBC News Calgary1 day ago 3:05 Distraught B.C. farmers wait to see full scope of loss after flooding The National3 days ago 1:57 Anxiety builds after B.C. flooding as military arrives The National3 days ago 0:29 Watch these horses cross flood waters in Merritt, B.C Radio5 days ago 2:31 Kyle Rittenhouse stands by self-defence plea during murder trial The National11 days ago Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now