Eastern Nova Scotia, Cape Breton expected to be hit hardest by upcoming rainstorm | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Eastern Nova Scotia, Cape Breton expected to be hit hardest by upcoming rainstorm | CBC News Loaded Nova Scotia Eastern Nova Scotia, Cape Breton expected to be hit hardest by upcoming rainstorm Nova Scotia and the other Maritime provinces are in for high winds and lots of rain this week. Social Sharing Storm is expected to land Monday and last through Tuesday or Wednesday Haley Ryan · CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 12:05 PM AT | Last Updated: 2 hours ago This week's storm will likely bring up to 80 millimetres of rain for most of N.S., while the eastern areas and Cape Breton will see the highest downpours up to 150 millimetres. (Ryan Snoddon/CBC) comments The eastern parts of Nova Scotia are likely be hit hardest by an approaching storm set to cover the Maritimes over the next couple of days. According to CBC meteorologist Ryan Snoddon, the heaviest rain and strongest winds will ramp up Monday and continue through Tuesday for Nova Scotia, likely into Wednesday for eastern areas.  Maritime provinces brace for severe rain, wind storm While moisture is coming in from the open ocean, meaning there's limited data available for forecast models, Snoddon said rainfall totals of more than 50 millimetres appear likely for most Nova Scotians by Thursday. The highest totals of 80 to 150 millimetres are most likely in eastern areas between Halifax and Cape Breton. By Monday night, winds will likely reach past 80 km/h for some parts of Nova Scotia. (Ryan Snoddon/CBC) Snoddon said heavy downpours increase the risk of localized flooding, especially in the east. Winds will likely gust 60 to 80 km/h during the storm, with the strongest most likely hitting the Atlantic coastline, eastern mainland Nova Scotia, and Cape Breton. The strongest winds will ramp up Monday, then taper off from west to east through Tuesday.  A special weather alert about the storm from Environment Canada remains in place for the entire province. Storm likely to retreat, then return However, Snoddon said the system is then looking set to retreat back to the west and return for a weaker second round on Wednesday night into Thursday. St. Matthew's United Church on Barrington Street in Halifax is opening during the storm as a warming centre and extreme weather shelter from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. The Extreme Weather &amp; Warming Centre is overseen by a small group of service providers. It’s a volunteer group who hire &amp; pay a small monthly honorarium to a coordinator. The Coordinator manages &amp; hires staff, &amp; liaises with St. Matt’s around the use of the space.&mdash;@OTChfx Halifax councillors Waye Mason and Tony Mancini tweeted on Sunday that they were waiting for more information on emergency overnight shelters for those experiencing homelessness who are in outdoor areas like Meagher Park. On Sunday afternoon, Halifax Search and Rescue tweeted it had been requested by Halifax Fire & Emergency to check wooded areas for people ahead of the storm. "Searchers plus our light vehicles will be responding to the request to help keep our homeless community members safe," the tweet said. The municipality confirmed it was working with the province to provide "temporary emergency shelters" and comfort centres to those in local homeless encampments, according to a release from HRM. No other details of the shelters were provided. Halifax advocates say people living in parks still waiting for next steps Community organization still waiting for modular homes promised for HRM "These accommodations will provide individuals, and their belongings, a safe place to stay during the storm," the release said. The Halifax municipality's emergency operations centre will be activated Monday morning and remain open until the storm has passed. The Nova Scotia Emergency Management Office said in a release that the storm may cause flooding, storm surges and power outages. Residents across the province are urged to follow a storm preparation checklist that includes moving patio furniture and light objects inside, having enough food and water on hand for 72 hours, and checking flashlight batteries. Ferry crossings impacted In Halifax, people can call 311 to report issues like flooding, downed trees or blocked roadways. Some ferry crossings have been altered due to the weather. Marine Atlantic's North Sydney to Port aux Basques ferry for Monday at 11:45 a.m. is now scheduled to depart Monday at 10:45 a.m., weather permitting. Northumberland Ferries Limited said their crossings between P.E.I. and Nova Scotia may experience delays or cancellations on Monday. MORE TOP STORIES  Nunavut man, 48, dies in single-car crash in Port Hawkesbury 'Love your neighbour': Faith groups share COVID-19 protocols after Amherst outbreak Clare votes in new municipal councillor in byelection Seniors' advocate concerned as many bookings for flu shots move online What pet photos in online dating profiles say about relationship intent CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now