Eastern Ontario town grapples with loss of its last grocery store | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Eastern Ontario town grapples with loss of its last grocery store | CBC News Loaded Ottawa Eastern Ontario town grapples with loss of its last grocery store The Valu-mart in the community of St. Isidore, Ont., is slated to shut down on Dec. 4, forcing people who live in the town of about 800 — including many older residents — to make significantly longer drives to get their basic necessities. Social Sharing Valu-mart slated to close in December as longtime owners retire CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: 12 hours ago The Valu-mart in St. Isidore, Ont., is slated to close down for good on Dec. 4, leaving the town of roughly 800 people without anywhere in the community to buy groceries. (Denis Babin/Radio-Canada) comments A small eastern Ontario village is coming to grips with the fact its last remaining grocery store will soon close its doors for good. The Valu-mart in St. Isidore, Ont., is slated to shut down on Dec. 4, forcing people who live in the community of about 800 — including many older residents — to make significantly longer drives to get their basic necessities. "We are talking about a village, a community, that is really aging, with reduced mobility," said Josée Laramée, who's lived in St. Isidore for the past 15 years. "There are people who walk to the grocery store, who will walk back to their homes with their groceries. They don't always have a car," she told Radio-Canada in a French-language interview. Jacques and Lyne Roy stand in the Valu-mart grocery store in St. Isidore, Ont., that they've run for the past three decades. They say they've tried to find a new owner, but the search has come up empty. (Denis Babin/Radio-Canada) Closure 'pretty hard,' owners say The store is closing because the owners, Jacques and Lyne Roy, have decided to retire after three decades in business. The Roys told Radio-Canada they've tried over the past few years to find a new owner for the Valu-Mart, which falls under the banner of Canadian grocery giant Loblaws, but found no takers. "The hour has come ... but it's still pretty hard," Jacques Roy said in French. "Customers have been coming to see me this past week, almost in tears." The closure won't just affect St. Isidore's residents, but also people in neighbouring communities like Fournier, Riceville and Saint-Bernardin, who would head to St. Isidore for their groceries. St. Isidore resident Josée Laramée says she'll now make the 20-kilometre drive to Casselman for her groceries. (Denis Babin/CBC) Unfortunately there's not much the greater municipality of The Nation can do in a case like this, said councillor Alain Mainville, whose ward includes the town. "I was hoping all the time that someone would sign up [to run the store]," said Mainville, who first learned of the impending closure in the summer. "It seems to be very difficult [but] it's not the council that should take over." As for Laramée, she's preparing to make 20-kilometre drives to Casselman, Ont., for her groceries, while still holding out hope a new owner will materialize. "It responds to a real need in our community ... we need people who are willing to take over," she said. WATCH | Last grocery store to close in St. Isidore, Ont., leaving residents facing longer trips for food Last grocery store to close in St. Isidore, Ont., leaving residents facing longer trips for food 12 hours ago 0:39Councillor Alain Mainville says he’s not happy that St. Isidore is losing its Valu-mart in early December, forcing residents to make longer trips for necessities. 0:39 With files from Denis Babin CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now