Fatima in Kabul | Short Docs Skip to main content Shorts Stories Filmmakers How to Watch Fatima in Kabul As the Taliban nears Kabul, 20-year-old Fatima’s life changes before her eyes. Unable to leave home, she turns to her phone and confides in an Afghan friend in Canada. NOW STREAMING ON CBC GEM Available on CBC Gem Fatima in Kabul Short Docs Watch Fatima in Kabul on YouTube. In the summer of 2021, U.S. and NATO troops completed their withdrawal from Afghanistan. As the Taliban moved into Kabul, the world wondered what life would be like for women under their rule. Fatima in Kabul shows how life changed dramatically for one 20-year-old woman. Life has never been easy for Fatima. In 2017, she lost her mother to a suicide bomb attack, and was left to care for her ailing father and younger sister, who is disabled. Still, she completed secondary school and was accepted into a university theatre program. Fatima embraced whatever freedoms she could. She came of age during Afghanistan’s rebuilding years and grew up with technology at her fingertips; like most teenagers, she spends a lot of time on her phone. In the documentary Fatima in Kabul, we first meet Fatima before the U.S.’s firm withdrawal announcement. We get a glimpse into her life before the pandemic and before confirmation of Taliban’s return. She’s attending guitar lessons, visiting her friends and travelling alone in taxis. By August 2021, all her dreams are at stake. Slowly, week by week, she begins to see her world change. She had been looking forward to a bright future but now finds herself heading toward darkness. As insecurity increases in Kabul, Fatima finds herself increasingly confined within the walls of her home. Violence erupts around her house. She watches her neighbours flee. Men in her neighbourhood demonstrate more aggressive behaviour toward women and girls. Eventually, she’s no longer allowed to leave her house without a male-relative escort. Fatima’s desire to connect leads her to share even more reflections with an Afghan friend in Canada, with whom she has been communicating for years. Through audio and video messages sent over the summer months, we see the changes creeping into her life, hinting at the return of past horrors. In June, power outages become more common as fighting erupts around Kabul. In July, Fatima begins to find grocery shopping dangerous. By August, her days and nights are engulfed in fear and violence. As the situation around Kabul shifts, Fatima tries to remain resilient, but when the Taliban appears on the city’s doorstep, she is faced with an impossible choice: stay and care for her family or attempt to escape. Stream Now on CBC Gem Fatima in Kabul Short Docs Related Content features How I became friends with a teenage girl in Afghanistan — and what happened to her when the Taliban arrived More » To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Comments FAQ LOG IN Submission Policy Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted. By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever. Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines. Follow CBC Docs Watch us on Gem Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Subscribe on YouTube Want to pitch a short doc? Find out how » Next Short Available on CBC Gem Fatima in Kabul More » Recent Stories features How I became friends with a teenage girl in Afghanistan — and what happened to her when the Taliban arrived More » features How this artist’s dream — and art — ended up in a film, totally by accident More »