Federal ministers update state of emergency in B.C. | CBC.ca Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More VideoChannelsHomeNewsSportsArtsLifeArchivesMusicDocs Federal ministers update state of emergency in B.C. | CBC.ca Loaded News Must Watch Federal ministers update state of emergency in B.C. Live in 11 minutes Federal ministers update state of emergency in B.C. In 11 minutes News live The ministers of emergency preparedness, defence, transportation and others provide an update on efforts to help B.C. cope with its devastating flooding. Related Stories A week after flooding hit B.C., federal ministers to provide update as severe weather looms Recommended for You now now now now now now now Must Watch Live in 2 days Speech from the throne 2021 | CBC News special CBC News2 days Live in 22 hours Daily House of Commons question period CBC News22 hours Live in 11 minutes Federal ministers update state of emergency in B.C. CBC News11 minutes 22:30 How not to fight a cold / Are your winter boots too slippery? Marketplace2 days ago 46:11 Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods Canada Tonight2 days ago 2:49:34 Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for children aged 5 to 11 Power and Politics2 days ago 49:26 Trudeau to push back against protectionist U.S. trade policies at Three Amigos summit Canada Tonight3 days ago 2:46:38 North American Leaders' Summit takes place in Washington Power and Politics3 days ago 49:30 Trucking industry working to get around catastrophic B.C. highway closures Canada Tonight4 days ago 2:50:31 Hundreds of Canadian Armed Forces personnel being mobilized to assist in B.C. Power and Politics4 days ago Trending Now 1:14 A dad reunites with his 11-year-old daughter whom he hasn't seen for seven years CBC News Calgary1 day ago 3:05 Distraught B.C. farmers wait to see full scope of loss after flooding The National3 days ago 1:57 Anxiety builds after B.C. flooding as military arrives The National3 days ago 0:29 Watch these horses cross flood waters in Merritt, B.C Radio5 days ago 2:31 Kyle Rittenhouse stands by self-defence plea during murder trial The National11 days ago Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now