Fiancée of Jamal Khashoggi urges Justin Bieber to cancel F1 show in Saudi Arabia | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Fiancée of Jamal Khashoggi urges Justin Bieber to cancel F1 show in Saudi Arabia | CBC News Loaded Entertainment Fiancée of Jamal Khashoggi urges Justin Bieber to cancel F1 show in Saudi Arabia Pop star Justin Bieber is facing growing calls to cancel his concert in Saudi Arabia next month as the fiancée of slain Saudi critic Jamal Khashoggi joined a chorus of voices on Sunday urging him not to perform at the kingdom's Formula One race. Social Sharing Hatice Cengiz says singer's cancellation would send 'powerful message' about a regime 'that kills its critics' The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 11:57 AM ET | Last Updated: 4 hours ago Justin Bieber, shown attending the Met Gala in New York City in September, is facing pressure not to perform at Saudi Arabia's Formula One race next month. (Theo Wargo/Getty Images) Pop star Justin Bieber is facing growing calls to cancel his concert in Saudi Arabia next month as the fiancée of slain Saudi critic Jamal Khashoggi joined a chorus of voices on Sunday urging him not to perform at the kingdom's Formula One race. In an open letter published by the Washington Post, Hatice Cengiz urged the Canadian megastar to cancel his Dec. 5 performance in the Red Sea city of Jiddah to "send a powerful message to the world that your name and talent will not be used to restore the reputation of a regime that kills its critics." Bieber's concert is the most headline-grabbing performance scheduled for the race in Jiddah, though other F1 concert performers include rapper A$AP Rocky, DJs David Guetta and Tiesto, and singer Jason Derulo. It is not the first time a pop star has faced pressure to pull out of a concert in Saudi Arabia. Mariah Carey was the biggest-name performer to hit the stage in the country after Khashoggi's killing by Saudi agents in Turkey in October 2018. She brushed off calls to boycott the show. Public pressure, however, prompted Nicki Minaj in 2019 to cancel her appearance on stage at a concert in Jiddah, telling The Associated Press at the time that she wanted to show support for women's rights, gay rights and freedom of expression. Killed by government agents Khashoggi's stunning killing in 2018 was carried out by members of a team of 15 Saudi government agents who had been sent to Istanbul, where the writer and former government spokesman had an appointment at the Saudi consulate for documents needed to marry Cengiz. She waited for him outside the consulate, but he never walked out. His body was never found. The killing by agents who worked for the crown prince drew international gasps and cast a shadow over Prince Mohammed, whose reputation never fully recovered. At the time of his murder in 2018 in Istanbul, Jamal Khashoggi had been writing columns for the Washington Post criticizing the Saudi crown prince's brash foreign policy moves and crackdown on activists and perceived critics. (AFP/Getty Images) Prince Mohammed has maintained he had no prior knowledge of the operation that killed Khashoggi. A U.S. intelligence assessment made public under President Joe Biden, however, determined the crown prince approved the operation. "Please know that your invitation to participate in a concert in Jiddah comes directly from MBS, as the crown prince is known," Cengiz wrote in her open letter to Bieber. "Nothing of significance happens in Saudi Arabia without his consent, and certainly not an event as important and flashy as this." Bieber's concert in Saudi Arabia comes shortly before he opens a world tour in February that was rescheduled from 2020 due to the pandemic. New'I know why Jamal was killed': Saudi activist in Canada says hacked phones led to Jamal Khashoggi's murder ExclusiveU.S. State Department announces 'Khashoggi ban' for individuals who target dissidents In the time since, Saudi Arabia's state-owned sovereign wealth fund — steered by Prince Mohammed — scooped up shares in Live Nation, the company that owns Ticketmaster and promotes concerts for Bieber and other major stars. As Live Nation's shares plummeted last year during COVID-19 lockdowns and the cancellation of thousands of shows, the Public Investment Fund bought $500 million US worth of shares in the battered company. Public filings show the Saudi wealth fund is now the second-largest institutional holder in Live Nation, with a stake worth some $1.4 billion US. Regime accused of 'sportwashing' Human Rights Watch has also called on Bieber and the other performers to pull out of the F1 concerts in Saudi Arabia, saying these events are aimed at "sportwashing" by diverting attention and deflecting scrutiny from the country's human rights record. Saudi youth are the main attendees of these concerts, enjoying the country's newfound social changes that allow for music and gender mixing. The kingdom's General Sports Authority argues that sports is a tool for social change within the kingdom. Khashoggi's fiancée, Hatice Cengiz, testifies before a House foreign affairs subcommittee hearing on the dangers of reporting on human rights, in Washington, D.C., in 2019. (Kevin Lamarque/Reuters) Next month's F1 race will be the first time Saudi Arabia hosts the premier sporting event, though it has hosted the lesser-known Formula-E race in past years in an effort to raise the country's profile as a tourist destination. At the time of Khashoggi's killing, the crown prince was being lauded for ushering in social reforms transforming life for many inside the country. Khashoggi had been writing columns for the Washington Post criticizing the crown prince's brash foreign policy moves and simultaneous crackdown on activists and perceived critics — including women's rights activists, writers, clerics and economists. Family of jailed Saudi activist implores Canada to call out kingdom's human rights record at G20 Saudi Arabia held a trial for some of those involved in his killing, sentencing five to death before sparing them of execution. Khashoggi's fiancée has told The Associated Press she will keep speaking out in the hopes of giving voice to those who remain imprisoned in Saudi Arabia for expressing their opinion. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Human rights group asks Justin Bieber to cancel Saudi Arabia concert Saudi crown prince approved murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi: U.S. intelligence report UN confirms Saudi threat against official investigating Khashoggi murder Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now