Filmmakers | Short Docs Skip to main content Shorts Stories Filmmakers How to Watch Filmmakers filmmakers Erin Mussolum Erin has been actively working in the film and television industry for over 20 years. More » filmmakers Danny Berish With close to 20 years experience working in film and television, Danny Berish is an award-winning film director. More » filmmakers Tiffany Hsiung Tiffany Hsiung is a Peabody award-winning filmmaker based in Toronto, Canada. More » filmmakers Sura Mallouh Sura Mallouh is a documentary filmmaker and cinematographer based in Toronto, ON. More » filmmakers Karen Wong Karen Wong is focused on independent productions with creators who are at their most creative and passionate. More » filmmakers Lulu Keating Award-winning Dawson City-based filmmaker Lulu Keating brings over 40 years of professional experience to the table. More » filmmakers Corey Stanton Corey Stanton is an award-winning filmmaker based out of Toronto, Canada. More » filmmakers Danae Elon Danae Elon is an award winning documentary filmmaker, producer and cinematographer. More » filmmakers Rosana Matecki Rosana has devoted 32 years of her professional career to writing, directing and producing independent documentary films. More » filmmakers Craig Range Craig Range is an award winning writer/director/cinematographer and producer. More » filmmakers Mike Johnston Mike Johnston is an award-winning Producer from Vancouver, British Columbia. More » filmmakers Van Royko Van Royko is a cinematographer and documentary filmmaker based in Montreal. More » 1 of 11 Next Last Follow CBC Docs Watch us on Gem Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Subscribe on YouTube Want to pitch a short doc? Find out how » Next Short Available on CBC Gem Fatima in Kabul More » Recent Stories features How I became friends with a teenage girl in Afghanistan — and what happened to her when the Taliban arrived More » features How this artist’s dream — and art — ended up in a film, totally by accident More »