First Nations families proud to show off humour and culture on Family Feud Canada | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society First Nations families proud to show off humour and culture on Family Feud Canada Lynxleg family wore ribbon skirts, Maracle family brought lacrosse sticks The Lynxleg family from Tootinaowaziibeeng agreed to wear ribbon skirts and shirts with political messaging on their upcoming Family Feud Canada episode. From left, Joshua, Shayle, Whitney, Bett and Harmony Lynxleg. Photo: (Family Feud Canada) RCI Posted: November 4, 2021 7:09 PM From the hearty laughs of aunties to talking about lacrosse, two First Nations families say they are proud to show off their humour while highlighting important issues on the newest season of Family Feud Canada. It was just our duty to bring out our culture, said Joshua Lynxleg, a contestant on an upcoming episode. Lynxleg, who is Anishinaabe from Tootinaowaziibeeng First Nation in Manitoba, about 300 kilometres northwest of Winnipeg, signed his family up for the show on a whim. The episode they recorded in Toronto is set to air on CBC-TV Nov. 8.  Photos of the Lynxleg family all wearing ribbon skirts and big earrings sparked interest about the episode on social media. My friend Susan Guimond made the ribbon skirt especially tailored to me. We went to the fabric store and of course bought the gayest, most glittery fabric there was, said Lynxleg, who identifies as two-spirit. He said the family, all cousins, agreed beforehand to wear shirts with messaging on issues like land back, clean water, missing and murdered Indigenous women and girls and residential schools. That's just the way of life for us, said Lynxleg. His cousin Whitney Lynxleg said being on the show with family members was one of the most amazing experiences she has ever had.  I feel that it's about time that we are in the forefront, in the spotlight, especially with everything happening. Like, we're waking up as people and we're also waking up everyone else. And I was just so proud, she said. She said Canadians who watch the show will get a glimpse of their humour. We're very humorous. We're a very accepting, loving culture. And they should be more like us, she said. Representing Tyendinaga David Maracle and his family filmed three episodes of the show that aired in October. Maracle, who is from Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory, about 180 kilometres east of Toronto, said his family loves watching both the American and Canadian versions of the show and that he was happy to meet host Gerry Dee. "When we actually got to go there and stand up behind those podiums, it was pretty cool,'' said Maracle. And to see our name and represent Tyendinaga was even cooler. Since season one, eight families that identify as being Indigenous or have Indigenous backgrounds have appeared on Family Feud Canada, including the Lynxlegs and Maracles.  Maracle, who was joined by his wife Kimberlee and three nieces, said the family won $10,000 and that more importantly, they got to represent their family in a good way. It's always important for people to see people having a good time, said Maracle. It was nice to be able to show off our kids' jerseys and they let us bring our lacrosse sticks and talk about the creator's game. So that was really cool. We really appreciated that.  Lenard Monkman (new window) · CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021