First COVID-19 vaccines for children to arrive in Canada on Sunday | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More First COVID-19 vaccines for children to arrive in Canada on Sunday | CBC News Loaded Politics First COVID-19 vaccines for children to arrive in Canada on Sunday The first deliveries of Pfizer-BioNTech's COVID-19 vaccine for children aged five to 11 are scheduled to arrive in Canada on Sunday, with 2.9 million set to be delivered by the end of the week. Social Sharing 2.9 million doses are expected by the end of the week Christian Paas-Lang · CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 1:13 PM ET | Last Updated: 1 hour ago A nurse in Seattle gives a first shot of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine to a child on Nov. 9. Health Canada recently approved a vaccine for children in Canada, and deliveries are expected to arrive starting Sunday. (Ted S. Warren/The Associated Press) comments The first doses of COVID-19 vaccines for children are expected to arrive in Canada on Sunday, a major milestone in this country's vaccination effort. The shots, developed by Pfizer-BioNTech, are meant for kids aged five to 11. The federal government and the pharmaceutical giant have agreed on an accelerated delivery of more than 2.9 million doses, scheduled to arrive in Canada by the end of the week. The delivery comes just a few days after Health Canada authorized the vaccine for emergency use. Public Services and Procurement Minister Filomena Tassi announced the date for the first delivery on Friday, shortly after Health Canada approved the vaccine. In an interview on Rosemary Barton Live that aired on Sunday, Pfizer Canada's vaccine lead Fabien Paquette said clinical trials had shown that the vaccine was almost 91 per cent effective at preventing COVID-19 for the targeted age group, and deliveries would be made swiftly across the country. WATCH | Pfizer Canada vaccine lead discusses arrival of doses for kids:  Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for children arriving in Canada on Sunday 2 hours ago 8:38The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine is the only one approved so far by Health Canada for children aged five to 11. The vaccine lead at Pfizer Canada, Fabien Paquette, spoke with CBC chief political correspondent Rosemary Barton about this accelerated rollout and what parents need to know. 8:38 "Over 4,600 children have been part of this trial, with really nice success and of course great results," he told CBC chief political correspondent Rosemary Barton. The pediatric vaccine produced by Pfizer uses a dosage a third of the size of those given to people 12 and older. There have been some other changes to this shot, including one that will allow it to stay at normal refrigeration temperatures for longer. COVID-19 vaccines for children will start arriving Sunday, government says As of Nov. 19, 79 per cent of Canadians aged five and older are fully vaccinated against COVID-19, according to CBC's vaccination tracker. Concerns about vaccine hesitancy While many health-care professionals welcome the opportunity to increase vaccination rates across the population, there is concern that even parents who are themselves vaccinated may be more hesitant to give it to their children. Paquette said it was "normal" to have those kinds of concerns, but he urged parents to trust the science and review process. "I would say for those parents, speak with health-care providers, take the time to speak with the nurse or immunizer that will provide the vaccine, talk to your pharmacist, your physician, go to credible sources where you can get additional information and the reassurance that this is a good option for your children," he said. WATCH | Parent Stefanie Ventura talks about the push to vaccinate children:  Quebec mother relieved her son will soon be vaccinated against COVID-19 2 hours ago 4:53Stefanie Ventura, a parent who had concerns about the vaccine for her seven-year-old son, Daniel, who has epilepsy and autism, speaks with CBC chief political correspondent Rosemary Barton. She says after speaking with doctors, she is looking forward to having her child vaccinated because the benefits outweigh the risks. 4:53 Stefanie Ventura, the parent of a seven-year-old, told Barton she originally was concerned about the vaccine because her son, Daniel, has epilepsy, but after speaking with experts, she was convinced that the benefits outweighed any risks. "We spoke with his neurologist, his pediatrician and several other doctors and staff, and they were able to give us all the information," she said. Ventura said the vaccine represented a "chance for our kids to get back a little bit of normalcy." SECOND OPINIONDoctors say the kids' COVID-19 vaccine is a booster for mental health As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country She said her family had taken many precautions to avoid getting sick during the pandemic, as illness had triggered seizures in the past. "We're hoping that a lot of parents get their kids vaccinated and we can really see the light at the end of the road," she said. Provinces readying rollout plans Once doses arrive in Canada, it is the responsibility of provinces to manage vaccine administration. The Ontario government has said parents will be able to book appointments for their children early this week, while Manitoba officials said rollout would begin within a week of delivery. In Nova Scotia, health officials said earlier this month that administration could begin in early December. Quebec is aiming to give one dose to each child by Christmas. You can watch full episodes of Rosemary Barton Live on CBC Gem, the CBC's streaming service. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Christian Paas-Lang Associate Producer Christian Paas-Lang is an Associate Producer with The House and digital writer with CBC Politics. With files from Rosemary Barton and Tyler Buist CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories COVID-19 vaccines for children will start arriving Sunday, government says As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country SECOND OPINION Doctors say the kids' COVID-19 vaccine is a booster for mental health Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now