Fleury tops Einarson, Homan falls to Harrison to open Canadian Olympic curling trials | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Fleury tops Einarson, Homan falls to Harrison to open Canadian Olympic curling trials | CBC Sports Loaded Curling Fleury tops Einarson, Homan falls to Harrison to open Canadian Olympic curling trials Jacqueline Harrison opened the Tim Hortons Canadian Curling Trials with a 6-5 upset victory over Rachel Homan on Saturday afternoon at the SaskTel Centre in Saskatoon. Social Sharing Competition in Saskatoon continues through Nov. 28 Gregory Strong · The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 7:42 PM ET | Last Updated: November 21 Top-ranked Tracy Fleury, pictured in 2019, got off to a solid start at the Canadian Olympic curling trials by defeating reigning national champion Kerri Einarson 7-4 on Saturday in Saskatoon. (Andrew Vaughan/The Canadian Press/File) comments Jacqueline Harrison admitted that nerves were a challenge in her debut appearance Saturday at the Tim Hortons Canadian Curling Trials. You wouldn't know it by the results. The veteran skip took a few deep breaths before settling into the hack and making a game-winning deuce for a 6-5 victory over defending champion Rachel Homan in the women's round-robin opener at the SaskTel Centre in Saskatoon. "We were just getting rocks in play and putting them in good spots and just trying to make their shots as difficult as we could," Harrison said. "We've all been in big-game situations before and yes, this is a really special event and you want to do well." PreviewCanada's Olympic curling trials a battle of talented, experienced teams THE BUZZERWho will win Canada's Olympic curling trials? A basketball stats guru might have the answer Harrison, from Waterdown, Ont., came through the recent pre-trials to earn the last spot in the nine-team women's field. She has played in some Grand Slam events and Ontario championships in the past, but this is by far the biggest event of her career. Two of her teammates - vice Alli Flaxey and second Lynn Kreviazuk - missed the playoffs at the 2017 trials in Ottawa. The lineup from the Dundas Valley Golf & Curling Club is rounded out by Laura Hickey. Harrison battled butterflies at times and said her knees would shake a little bit on occasion. She threw 76 per cent for the game and improved to 5-12 lifetime against Homan. 'Everyone wants a win in their first game' "It's great, everyone wants a win in their first game," Harrison said. "You just get comfortable, make some shots ?Çª we're really pleased." Homan, who won the 2017 trials in her hometown of Ottawa, represented Canada at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, but did not make the podium. She's one of the favourites again this time around, while Harrison is a betting longshot at 66-1. "It's how we started the last time [at trials], so we didn't want to change anything up," she quipped. Homan fell to Chelsea Carey in the round-robin opener four years ago, but topped Carey in the final to book her Olympic ticket. WATCH l Fleury begins Canadian Olympic curling trials with win over Einarson: Team Fleury begins Canadian Olympic curling trials with victory over Team Einarson 22 hours ago 0:32Tracy Fleury leads her team past 2021 Scotties Tournament of Hearts champion Kerri Einarson 7-4 in round robin play in Saskatoon. 0:32 Carey, meanwhile, is serving as fifth and helping with coaching duties for Tracy Fleury, who opened with a 7-4 win over reigning national champion Kerri Einarson. Einarson had some bad luck in the third end as her stone picked and Fleury took advantage with a draw for two. Fleury rubbed a guard in the seventh to set up an Einarson draw for two that tied the game, but Fleury rebounded with a three-ender in the ninth. "It's been a great year for us, we've been really consistent and just seem to find ways to win close games," said Fleury, who improved her record against Einarson to 5-0 this season. Fleury's team is the runaway leader in the Canadian women's team rankings. "So far they're rolling," Carey said. "Stuff just goes your way when you're playing that well." More Curling coverage In the other Draw 1 games, Jennifer Jones beat Krista McCarville 8-5 and Casey Scheidegger topped Laura Walker 6-4. Announced attendance for the afternoon draw was 4,558. The venue seats about 14,000 for curling. In the late draw, Mike McEwen topped Matt Dunstone 7-2 and Brad Jacobs dumped John Epping 9-3. Defending men's champion Kevin Koe, who also missed the Olympic podium in Pyeongchang, opened with a 9-2 rout of Tanner Horgan. Brad Gushue scored three in the 10th end for a 6-4 victory over Brendan Bottcher. The top three teams in the men's and women's draws will advance to the playoffs. The finals are set for Nov. 28. Winning teams will represent Canada in February's Winter Olympics in Beijing. WATCH l Gushue defeats Bottcher at Olympic trials: Gushue opens Olympic trials with win over Bottcher 17 hours ago 1:25Brad Gushue scored three in the 10th end to lead his Newfoundland rink to a 6-4 win over Brendan Bottcher. 1:25 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Preview Canada's Olympic curling trials a battle of talented, experienced teams Dunstone reunites with former junior teammate Lott after late change ahead of curling trials THE BUZZER Who will win Canada's Olympic curling trials? A basketball stats guru might have the answer More Curling coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now