For B.C.'s salmon, floods represent another challenge to survival | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More For B.C.'s salmon, floods represent another challenge to survival | CBC News Loaded British Columbia For B.C.'s salmon, floods represent another challenge to survival The damage from a "once in a century" storm could be another stressor for salmon on B.C.'s South Coast after decades of fishing, habitat destruction and development that have sent salmon stocks spiralling into decline, experts said. Social Sharing Eggs may have been washed away or destroyed in massive flood on B.C.'s South Coast, expert says Roshini Nair · CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 7:00 AM PT | Last Updated: 6 hours ago A flooded Colquitz Creek in Victoria is pictured on Thursday. Experts say the recent flooding in B.C.'s South Coast could pose another challenge to salmon in the region. (Ken Mizokoshi/CBC) comments When James Reinheller stared down his flooded street in Clayburn, a neighbourhood in Abbotsford, B.C., on Monday, he said he saw a bizarre sight: a salmon making its way up the water-logged road.  "From the bottom of the road, all the way up, he was swimming," Reinheller said. "It was quite the sight to see. You just don't expect to see salmon swimming up your road." It's a concerning instance from a catastrophic week on the province's southwest, where flooding and mudslides destroyed critical infrastructure, highways and farmland — and forced tens of thousands fleeing. But the damage from what Public Safety Minister Mike Farnworth called a "once in a century" storm could be another stressor for salmon on B.C.'s South Coast after decades of fishing, habitat destruction and development that have sent salmon stocks spiralling into decline, experts said. Recent inclement weather events like heat domes and landslides have also stacked the odds against salmon. CBC ExplainsWhat are atmospheric rivers, and how are they affecting the B.C. floods? Eggs could have washed away, expert says Salmon have evolved to withstand floods before, but perhaps not one like this, said Jonathon Moore, a Simon Fraser University biology professor and director of the Salmon Watersheds Lab. "Salmon are really good at finding places that won't scour and so they sort of evolved for flooding, but not this level of flooding," Moore said.  "It depends a ton on the watershed and the watershed characteristics." Read more about the flood situation across southern B.C. The main concern, he said, is whether newly spawned eggs could have been washed away — also known as scouring. Fall is spawning season for many salmon species. Moore said some of the salmon species that had already spawned and built nests — or redds — for eggs prior to the flood might have seen those eggs get either washed away or covered with excess sediment or silt. In that case, he said a generation may have been lost.  "Some populations [do] not have as many returning adults in the next generation. There will be fewer fry in the river in these places that got hammered, there will be fewer young salmon the year after and then few that go out to sea, fewer will come back," Moore said.  The effects of what happened to the salmon population depends on the waterway, the species and the life stage of the salmon. Moore said there are salmon at various stages of their life cycles in the freshwater system of B.C.'s South Coast in the fall. "This impact won't be the same across populations and locations. There will be certain places that get hit harder than other places," he said. There are various salmon species at different life stages in the river systems of B.C.'s South Coast at any given time. Pictured above is a juvenile coho salmon. (Submitted by Jonathan Moore) On Vancouver Island, for example, the iconic chum salmon run in the Goldstream River may have been dealt a blow with this weather event, said Ian Bruce, the executive coordinator of the Peninsula Streams Society. "[The run was] a third or a quarter of what its average has been lately. So with this rain event on top of a low return, it's very grim for Goldstream and for the chum," said Bruce.  Younger smolts in the river would have struggled to stay put, he said. "Sometimes they'll end up leaving the creek, going on a flood plain and getting lost," Bruce said. Salmon are getting cooked by climate change. Here's how they could be saved Urgent action needed  As the floodwaters recede, the assessment of the damage will begin. Fisheries and Oceans Canada said in a statement it will be working alongside local community partners to assess the long-term impacts on Pacific salmon. Plans underway to bring salmon back to Victoria's Bowker Creek Moore said there are things that can be done to help salmon cope with climate change, like connecting creeks to the watershed restoring long-buried estuaries. On Vancouver Island, Bruce said he is working on creating rain gardens to help dampen the peaks of the flood events and help store water.  "Just like there are cumulative effects of the different stressors that salmon are facing, there's also the cumulative effects of the different things we can do to help out and create resilient systems," Moore said.  "Salmon have dealt with a lot. There's an urgent need for action." With files from All Points West and CBC's Georgie Smyth CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia 'I have nothing left': Merritt, B.C., family asking for help after losing home Sumas First Nation built on higher ground, unaffected by flooding in former lake bed, says chief CBC Explains What are atmospheric rivers, and how are they affecting the B.C. floods? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now