Former world No. 1 doubles player accuses Chinese Communist Party official of sexual assault | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Former world No. 1 doubles player accuses Chinese Communist Party official of sexual assault | CBC News Loaded World Former world No. 1 doubles player accuses Chinese Communist Party official of sexual assault Former world No.1 tennis doubles player Peng Shuai, one of China's biggest sporting stars, has publicly accused a former Chinese vice-premier of forcing her into sex several years ago in a social media post that was later deleted. Social Sharing Accusation from one of China's biggest sporting stars came in a since-deleted social media post Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 03, 2021 9:37 AM ET | Last Updated: November 3 Peng Shuai is shown serving during a match at the Australian Open on Jan. 15, 2019. (Edgar Su/Reuters) Former world No.1 tennis doubles player Peng Shuai, one of China's biggest sporting stars, has publicly accused a former Chinese vice-premier of forcing her into sex several years ago in a social media post that was later deleted. According to a screenshot of her verified Weibo account late on Tuesday, Peng said that Zhang Gaoli, who became a member of the Politburo Standing Committee — China's top decision-making body — coerced her into sex and they later had an on-off consensual relationship. The post was deleted around 30 minutes after it was published, although searches for Peng's name on China's tightly controlled internet surged after the posting, and screenshots were shared among private WeChat groups and over iMessage. China's internet is heavily censored and the private lives of top leaders are an especially sensitive subject. Peng, who said in the post that she could provide no evidence to back her allegations, did not respond to a request for comment sent to her Weibo account. Sports marketing agency APG, which says on its website that it represents her, did not respond to a request for comment. Former top Chinese Communist Party official Zhang Gaoli is shown at a meeting of the China Development Forum in Beijing in 2015. (Jason Lee/Reuters) China's State Council Information Office did not immediately respond to requests for comment, including for comment from Zhang. When asked at a regular daily briefing about the Weibo post, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said he was not aware of the issue and that "this is not a question related to foreign affairs." Post creates buzz in short timespan Weibo and Tencent, which operates WeChat, did not respond to requests for comment. Sexual harassment and assault were for years rarely broached in public in China until a #MeToo movement began in 2018, when a Beijing college student publicly accused her professor of sexual harassment. That spread to non-government organizations, media and other industries. Chinese Canadian pop star, Kris Wu, dumped by brands over sexual assault allegations Chinese billionaire arrested in Minneapolis in sexual misconduct case The National Today#MeToo: There's a lot more than Weinstein and Freeman going on A Weibo timescale function showed that a hashtag of Peng Shuai's name, which had few to no mentions prior to Tuesday, has racked up more than 20 million views since her post. Discussions of the hashtag surged around the time of Peng's post, but later plummeted as posts on the topic were deleted. By early Wednesday, searches for Peng's name on Weibo yielded no results and discussions of the topic were blocked. Users of WeChat and QQ, another chat app, were blocked from sending the screenshots to each other. LISTEN | Chinese-Canadian pop superstar Kris Wu accused of predatory sexual behaviour: Front Burner18:35Kris Wu and China’s #MeToo momentChinese-Canadian pop superstar Kris Wu is caught in a #MeToo firestorm over allegations of predatory sexual behaviour with an underage girl now sweeping Chinese media. 18:35 While Peng's Weibo account remained available, with earlier posts visible, the comment and repost functions were disabled. Zhang, now 75, was a vice-premier between 2013 and 2018 and had also been party secretary of the northeastern province of Shandong. He served on the Politburo Standing Committee between 2012 and 2017. Peng was the world No.1 doubles player in 2014, the first Chinese player to achieve a top ranking, after winning the doubles titles at Wimbledon in 2013 and the French Open in 2014 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now