Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Courts and Crime Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges Nova Scotia company fined $15,000 Fox Hill Cheese and its owners were accused of hiring workers from Mexico without the proper documentation. Photo: Radio-Canada RCI Posted: November 19, 2021 9:00 PM A small Nova Scotia dairy operation has pleaded guilty to three violations under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act and been fined a total of $15,000 — $5,000 for each guilty plea. A lawyer for Fox Hill Cheese entered the guilty pleas in provincial court in Halifax on Friday as part of a plea arrangement with the Crown. The company has a dairy farm in Port Williams in the Annapolis Valley and a market and deli in Halifax. It sells cheese, milk, gelato and yogurt. The company and owners Richard Rand and Ivonne Virginia Rios-Quintana, who are husband and wife, were accused of hiring workers from Mexico without proper documentation. In exchange for the guilty pleas from the company, the federal Crown offered no evidence on the charges against Rand and Rios-Quintana, so the charges were withdrawn. In an agreed statement of facts read into the record by Crown prosecutor Max Kruger, court was told that the Canada Border Services Agency received an anonymous tip in October 2018 about three employees working for Fox Hill without proper documentation. Evidence CBSA agents executed a search warrant at the farm in April 2019 and seized evidence. That evidence revealed that one woman had worked for the company for six months in 2018 without proper work documents. Instead, her landlord was listed as an employee and was paid by the company. The money he received was then applied toward the worker's rent. In the case of a second employee, the CBSA found that his salary was concealed by payment to his wife. She was paid for cleaning services she did not actually provide. A third employee received promissory notes for payment. In accepting the joint sentencing and plea recommendations, Judge Aleta Cromwell noted that a mitigating factor for the company was that it actually paid the employees and did not appear to exploit them. In addition to the fines, Fox Hill Cheese will be prohibited from participating in federal programs that provide immigrant workers for a period of two years. MORE TOP STORIES Nova Scotia to expand eligibility for COVID-19 booster shot by end of month (new window) ANALYSISHouston government roars into fall sitting, stumbles out (new window) Nova Scotia releases initial employee vaccination numbers among health care, education sectors (new window) Province fixing loan gap after Dalhousie nursing students struggled to pay rent (new window) Man, 30, dies in ATV crash in Guysborough County (new window) Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021