Gord Downie's wife, Kaya Usher, announces debut album, out Nov. 17 | CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More Gord Downie's wife, Kaya Usher, announces debut album, out Nov. 17 | CBC Music Loaded Music Gord Downie's wife, Kaya Usher, announces debut album, out Nov. 17 Usher is joined by two of her and Downie's children on this 10-track release. Social Sharing Usher is joined by two of her and Downie's children on this 10-track release Melody Lau · CBC Music · Posted: Nov 08, 2021 11:39 AM ET | Last Updated: November 8 Kaya Usher, wife of Tragically Hip frontman Gord Downie, will make her musical debut on Nov. 17 with her first album titled All This Is. (Kaya Usher/YouTube) comments Kaya Usher, wife of the late Gord Downie, has announced her debut album as a recording artist.  The album, titled All This Is, will be released on Nov. 17 via Arts & Crafts Productions, the same label behind Downie's last four solo albums including 2017's Introduce Yerself, which won the 2018 Juno Award for adult alternative album of the year.  Today, Usher is debuting her first single, "Heart Clicks," a track about "the transcending power of love and the ways in which it unites humanity," according to a press release.  All This Is was produced by Broken Social Scene's Kevin Drew and Nyles Spencer, both of whom were frequent collaborators of Downie. It was also mastered by Grammy Award winner Emily Lazar and features backup vocals from Andrea Nann and two of Usher and Downie's children, Lou and Willo. This project is formally called Kaya Usher and the Family Band, as Usher explains: "This is a very personal album for me, not only because I get to jam out with my kids, but also because music has helped me to rise up and transcend what was holding me back. Everyone can connect to music. My hope is that this album helps others reach new heights too."  The album was recorded at the Tragically Hip's Bathouse Recording Studio near Kingston, Ont. The album art was designed by Willo. Watch the video for Kaya Usher and the Family Band's "Heart Clicks" above.  Related Stories Gord Downie's 2001 solo project Coke Machine Glow to be reissued with a new poetry audiobook  Watch the 2021 Juno Awards Song Cycle: How Mother Mother's 'Hayloft' was made Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now