Gregory Strong | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Gregory Strong | CBC Loaded Gregory Strong Latest from Gregory Strong Updated Rachel Homan drops 2nd straight match at Canada's Olympic curling trials Early losses to the bottom two seeds at Canada's Olympic curling trials have put defending women's champion Rachel Homan in a tough spot at the SaskTel Centre. Olympics -Winter Sports -Curling |7 minutes ago Fleury tops Einarson, Homan falls to Harrison to open Canadian Olympic curling trials Jacqueline Harrison opened the Tim Hortons Canadian Curling Trials with a 6-5 upset victory over Rachel Homan on Saturday afternoon at the SaskTel Centre in Saskatoon. Olympics -Winter Sports -Curling |November 21 Dunstone reunites with former junior teammate Lott after late change ahead of curling trials Former junior champions Matt Dunstone and Colton Lott have reunited at the Tim Hortons Canadian Curling Trials after a surprise team announcement a day earlier. Lott will fill in on Team Dunstone for regular third Braeden Moskowy, who's unable to compete due to personal reasons. Olympics -Winter Sports -Curling |November 19 Jose Berrios strikes 7-year extension with Blue Jays, pending physical: report The Toronto Blue Jays are locking up starting pitcher Jose Berrios to a long-term deal, with a team source saying the two sides have agreed to a seven-year extension worth $131 million US, pending a physical. Baseball -MLB |November 16 Barnes pours in team-high 21 as Raptors stave off late rally from Magic Scottie Barnes had 21 points and nine rebounds and Gary Trent Jr., added 19 points and a game-saving defensive play as the Toronto Raptors hung on for a 110-109 win over the Orlando Magic on Friday night at Scotiabank Arena. Basketball -NBA |October 30 Raptors record 1st win in Toronto since February 2020 with thumping of Pacers Fred VanVleet had 26 points and a career-high 10 rebounds and OG Anunoby added 25 points as the Toronto Raptors defeated the Indiana Pacers 118-100 on Wednesday night for their first home victory of the season — and first in Toronto since Feb. 23, 2020. Basketball -NBA |October 28 1st player to speak out reacts to Canada Soccer's review of coach investigation The soccer player who first publicly accused a women's national team coach of inappropriate behaviour says Canada Soccer's weekend response to her complaints is better late than never. Soccer |October 24 Teams Homan, Hasselborg earn victories in fans return at Grand Slam of Curling Masters With fans bellowing encouragement, the occasional smattering of applause after a quality shot and even the intermittent ringing of a cowbell, it certainly felt like old times at the curling rink on Wednesday. Olympics -Winter Sports -Curling |October 21 Olympic decathlon champ Damian Warner gets loose with other sports after post-Games break Olympic decathlon champion Damian Warner will be casting a wide sporting net as he starts preparations for a busy 2022 season. Warner planned to shoot hoops with his coach and play some badminton Friday as he slowly eases his body back into a regular routine. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |October 16 For Canadian 80-and-over Boston Marathon champion, oatmeal and rest keys to success 82-year-old Canadian Keijo Taivassalo ran a time of four hours 10 minutes 23 seconds in the Boston Marathon, well over half an hour ahead of his nearest 80-and-over competitor. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |October 15Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now