Hamilton councillors vote down a massive expansion to the city's urban boundary | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Hamilton councillors vote down a massive expansion to the city's urban boundary | CBC News Loaded Hamilton Hamilton councillors vote down a massive expansion to the city's urban boundary The vote was deferred from Nov. 9, when hundreds of residents gave input, most against the expansion. Social Sharing The vote was deferred from Nov. 9, when hundreds of residents gave input, most against the expansion Samantha Craggs · CBC News · Posted: Nov 19, 2021 10:03 AM ET | Last Updated: November 20 Hamilton city council has decided not to expand the city's urban boundary by 1,310 hectares. (Patrick Morrell/CBC) comments Hamilton city councillors have voted down a controversial plan to expand the city's urban boundary by 1,310 hectares. After more than nine hours of discussion, councillors voted 13-3 against an "ambitious density" scenario. That scenario would have expanded the city limits to so-called "whitebelt" land between the existing boundary and the greenbelt. It was seen as a win by the advocates who had spent much of 2021 rallying in support of a no-expansion option.  Yassssssssssssssss!!!!!!!!!!! Massive win for the people of Hamilton and huge defeat for the land speculators!!!!!! <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/StopSprawl?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#StopSprawl</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HamOnt?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HamOnt</a> ? ? ?? <a href="https://t.co/FrHDhg2AMu">https://t.co/FrHDhg2AMu</a>&mdash;@jasonhindle Now city planning staff will report back in January with a plan to accommodate Hamilton's projected population growth over the next 30 years, but without expanding the boundary. Those who wanted the expansion say the decision will now restrict people who want backyards and single-family homes.  Those against the expansion Friday cited climate change as a factor, and a desire to see how much housing is built along the city's planned light-rail transit line from McMaster University to Eastgate Square. A 'Stop Sprawl' sign is seen outside a home in east Hamilton. (Eva Salinas/CBC) Most of all, those opposed to expansion say they don't want to gobble up precious land for growing food. "That's what's caused me serious concern," said Tom Jackson, Ward 6 (east Mountain) councillor.  Jackson said he still anticipates residents complaining about more density in neighbourhoods. He also pointed out that most, if not all, of the councillors live in single-family homes. "I'm lucky to have my little bungalow," he said. "My own little piece of earth."  Boundary DilemmaHamilton's urban boundary decision has been rescheduled to Nov. 19 Boundary DilemmaReaction to urban boundary question in Hamilton is so big that council postpones decision Boundary DilemmaWho's who in the urban boundary debate? A look at the players involved in the Hamilton decision Terry Whitehead, Ward 14 (west Mountain) councillor, voted for the expansion, saying people need choices when it comes to housing. Rejecting the expansion, he said, will only create more commuters, working against people's desire to protect the environment. "We're closing the gate behind us so my children, your children, will never be able to afford a single-family home," he said. "We're making a huge mistake right now, and land values will jump significantly and will be priced beyond our control." Mayor Fred Eisenberger doesn't think so. At Eisenberger's prompting, city staff will now report every year on the following: Residential intensification. Construction activity in terms of housing mix. Supply of vacant land to accommodate forecasted growth. A comparison of actual versus forecasted growth. If need be, Eisenberger said, the city can revisit the issue later. For now, "there's an opportunity here for us to create the kinds of infill and intensification that we aspire to," he said. "This is not a no-growth option. This is a where-do-we-grow option. And in my view, that where-do-we-grow option ought to exist in the current urban boundary." City staff had said an expansion was necessary to meet provincial density targets, and to accommodate a projected population increase of 236,000 people over the next 30 years, for a total population of 820,000 by 2051. In that time, the expansion plan said, the city will need to grow by 110,000 more housing units and 122,000 more jobs. The province can still intervene and force a plan on the city. How they voted In favour of the urban boundary expansion Lloyd Ferguson (Ward 12), Maria Pearson (10), Terry Whitehead (14). Who was opposed Maureen Wilson (1), Jason Farr (2), Nrinder Nann (3), Sam Merulla (4), Russ Powers (5), Tom Jackson (6), Esther Pauls (7), John-Paul Danko (8), Brad Clark (9), Brenda Johnson (11), Arlene VanderBeek (13), Judi Partridge (15). CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Boundary Dilemma Hamilton's urban boundary decision has been rescheduled to Nov. 19 Boundary Dilemma Reaction to urban boundary question in Hamilton is so big that council postpones decision Boundary Dilemma Who's who in the urban boundary debate? A look at the players involved in the Hamilton decision Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now