Hamilton youth charged after $46M in cryptocurrency stolen from U.S. resident was used to get gaming username | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Economy Hamilton youth charged after $46M in cryptocurrency stolen from U.S. resident was used to get gaming username Police won't give age of person charged or gaming username allegedly bought with some of the crypto Hamilton police say a local youth has been charged in the theft of $46 million in cryptocurrency. Photo: iStock / skodonnell RCI Posted: November 18, 2021 3:54 PM A Hamilton youth has been charged in the theft of $46 million in cryptocurrency after investigators learned some of it was put toward buying a gaming username. Local police worked with the FBI and U.S. Secret Service to investigate millions in missing currency stolen via what's known as a SIM swap attack, said Det.-Const. Kenneth Kirkpatrick from Hamilton Police Service's cybercrimes unit. The three agencies started working together in March 2020 after an American reported the loss. On Wednesday, investigators seized $7 million in cryptocurrency. Kirkpatrick wouldn't say the exact age or gender of the youth, or the username that youth bought. He also didn't say whether the youth was acting alone, saying the case is currently in Hamilton court. But he said investigators cracked the case after the name was purchased on the gaming network. Police said it's the largest individual cryptocurrency theft from one person that's ever been reported.  The amount, of course, is very surprising, Kirkpatrick said. That's a large amount of money, and it's a large amount of money in anybody's opinion. What is a SIM swap attack? A SIM swap attack is when someone manipulates cellular network employees to duplicate phone numbers, so that person can use the number to intercept two-step authorization requests. In other words, if someone gets a code sent to their phone to recover a password, the thief can intercept that code to get access to the account, says Guy-Vincent Jourdan, a professor at the University of Ottawa's school of engineering and computer science. Kirkpatrick said this is especially potent given that many people use the same password for multiple sites. Jourdan, who isn't involved in this case, said cryptocurrency systems have a lot of weaknesses that can be exploited for fraud and theft. Fewer safeguards for crypto There's no regulation, he said. There's no backup. There's no guarantee of anything, Jourdan said. "If you use the normal banking system, then the banks are regulated. You can say, 'I didn't mean to do that transaction.' You can contact that bank, get the money back. There is centralization. There is control over it. There's none of that in crypto. There are absolutely zero safeguards to give you the possibility to say, 'Oops.' Kirkpatrick said cyber and cryptocurrency crimes are increasingly common. His unit began in 2018, and educates other Hamilton police officers and the public. He recommends following the RCMP (new window) and Hamilton police (new window) for tips on self protection. Samantha Craggs (new window) · CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021