He was 14 with no immediate family in Six Nations, Ont. — then he joined the military | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society He was 14 with no immediate family in Six Nations, Ont. — then he joined the military Welby Isaacs, known as Ike, is 2nd oldest living Indigenous veteran in Six Nations of the Grand River Welby Isaacs, who's known as Ike, says serving in the Canadian military for seven years made him more proud to be Indigenous. Photo:  (Bobby Hristova/CBC) RCI Posted: November 11, 2021 6:48 PM When Welby Isaacs was a high school student in Ontario's Six Nations of the Grand River,  he excelled in math and shop classes. I thought maybe I wanted to be an architectural draftsman or something, the 82-year-old, who is Cayuga, told CBC Hamilton. But if he had, he wouldn't have earned the name everyone knows him by now — Ike. They gave that to me in the military, he said. Short for Isaacs I guess. Isaacs had been living in Six Nations with his grandmother since he was about three months old. She was my rock, he said. But then she died.  Ike is the second oldest living Indigenous veteran in Ontario's Six Nations of the Grand River. Photo:  (Bobby Hristova/CBC) At age 14, Isaacs said he became an orphan. "I was very fortunate that I never went to the residential school (new window) because my neighbour took me in and I lived with them for about a year and a half," he said. It's just the way things were done on the reserve back then. The Natives looked after one another. Joining the military Isaacs said he later lived with his first cousin and dropped out of high school to join the military at 17 — something he doesn't think would have happened if his grandmother was still alive. He said the thought petrified her. At first, it scared him too. I was on my own from then on. It's kind of scary at first, at 17, getting on a train in London in the middle of winter, getting off in Alliston, a little hick town, everything is closed at 10 o'clock at night, Isaacs said. He said he joined in 1959, going to the Canadian Forces Base in Borden, Ont., to do basic training, recruit training and trades training before going to The Royal Canadian Dragoons regiment in Petawawa. He was sent to Germany as a radio operator in a tank and other vehicles. At the height of his seven-year career, which included time in Egypt, Isaacs was a lance corporal before being honourably discharged in 1966. You come out of the service with a totally different attitude to what you went in, he said. He spent 4 years as a WW II prisoner of war. Then, this Métis veteran enlisted again (new window) Beaded poppies are a source of pride, resilience for this Indigenous designer (new window) He bought a home in Brantford, and spent the rest of his professional life as a steelworker and working in the automotive industry. He also joined the Six Nations Veterans Association, where veterans meet on the reserve and catch up. He's now the second oldest living veteran in the club, behind Ed English, who's 92.  Bruce Patterson is first vice-president of the association. He's Tuscarora, of the Six Nations of the Grand River. He said he served in the U.S. for two years, spending one year in Vietnam. Patterson said the association is meant to honour people like Isaacs, who he regards as the epitome of a serviceman. It keeps everything alive for the veterans so they're not forgotten, he said. Isaacs even received recognition from his favourite hockey team after the Toronto Maple Leafs honoured him (new window) on Monday. From no family to having 2 Despite being without an immediate family at 14, Isaacs managed to start his own family. He married and had two children before divorcing and entering a second marriage. But tragedy stuck. I lost my oldest daughter; it'll be three years next month, he said. My [second] wife passed away seven months after my first daughter, so it's been a hard life for the last few years. Bobby Hristova (new window) · CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021