Health Canada authorizes Moderna COVID-19 vaccine - Canada.ca Skip to main content Skip to "About government" Language selection Français fr / Gouvernement du Canada Search Search Canada.ca Search Menu Main Menu Jobs and the workplace Immigration and citizenship Travel and tourism Business and industry Benefits Health Taxes Environment and natural resources National security and defence Culture, history and sport Policing, justice and emergencies Transport and infrastructure Canada and the world Money and finances Science and innovation You are here: Canada.ca Departments and agencies Health Canada Health Canada authorizes Moderna COVID-19 vaccine From: Health Canada Statement Today, Health Canada authorized the second COVID-19 vaccine in Canada, manufactured by Moderna. December 23, 2020                Ottawa, ON                 Health Canada Today, Health Canada authorized the second COVID-19 vaccine in Canada, manufactured by Moderna. Health Canada received Moderna’s submission on October 12, 2020, and after a thorough, independent review of the evidence, it has determined that the Moderna vaccine meets the Department’s stringent safety, efficacy and quality requirements. Today’s authorization is a critical step in ensuring additional COVID-19 vaccines are available to all Canadians in all parts of the country. The different storage and handling requirements of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine mean that it can be distributed to isolated and remote communities, including the territories. The Department is committed to openness and transparency. As such, Health Canada is publishing a number of documents related to this decision, including a high-level summary of the evidence that we reviewed to support the authorization of the vaccine. More detailed information will be made available in the coming weeks, including a detailed scientific summary and the full clinical trial data package. Health Canada and the Public Health Agency of Canada will closely monitor the safety of the vaccine once it is on the market and will not hesitate to take action if any safety concerns are identified. The terms and conditions of the Moderna vaccine authorization require the manufacturer to continue providing information to Health Canada on the safety, efficacy and quality of the vaccine to ensure the benefits of the vaccine continue to be demonstrated through market use. To further support the safe use of the Moderna vaccine, the National Advisory Committee on Immunization (NACI) will update its recommendations on the use of COVID-19 vaccines to inform federal, provincial, and territorial immunization programs. The vaccine is indicated for use in people 18 years of age or older. Moderna is currently conducting additional studies in children from 12 years of age and older, and this indication could be revised in the future to include children if the data from these studies support it. The vaccine was authorized under Health Canada’s Interim Order Respecting the Importation, Sale and Advertising of Drugs for Use in Relation to COVID-19. This process allowed Health Canada to assess information submitted by the manufacturer as it became available during the product development process, while maintaining Canada’s high standards. Contacts Media Relations Health Canada 613-957-2983 hc.media.sc@canada.ca Search for related information by keyword: HE Health and Safety | Health Canada | Canada | Drug and health products review and approval | Coronavirus (COVID-19) | Immunization and vaccines | general public | statements Report a problem or mistake on this page Please select all that apply: A link, button or video is not working It has a spelling mistake Information is missing Information is outdated or wrong Login error when trying to access an account (e.g. My Service Canada Account) GC Key access SecureKey Concierge (Banking Credential) access Personal Access Code (PAC) problems or EI Access Code (AC) problems Social Insurance Number (SIN) validation problems Other login error not in this list I can't find what I'm looking for Other issue not in this list Submit Thank you for your help! You will not receive a reply. For enquiries, contact us. Date modified: 2020-12-23 About government Contact us Departments and agencies Public service and military News Treaties, laws and regulations Government-wide reporting Prime Minister About government Open government About this site Social media Mobile applications About Canada.ca Terms and conditions Privacy Top of page