Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Health Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Vaccine approved for use in children ages five to 11 An eight-year-old, joined by a therapy dog, shows off the bandage over his injection site after being vaccinated in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 3. Photo: (Carolyn Kaster/The Associated Press) RCI Posted: November 19, 2021 2:54 PM Health Canada has officially approved Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine for children ages five to 11, heralding it as more than 90 per cent effective against COVID-19. Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? The federal department posted online this morning, about a month after it received the company's submission. After a thorough and independent scientific review of the evidence, the department has determined that the benefits of this vaccine for children between five and 11 years of age outweigh the risks, wrote Health Canada in a release. Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine is delivered in doses one-third the size of those given to adults and kids 12 and older, and the dosing schedule approved by Health Canada is to give the two doses 21 days apart. Impending rollout of COVID-19 vaccine to kids welcome news for many parents (new window) Moderna asks Health Canada to approve its COVID-19 vaccine for children (new window) More details, including a delivery plan, are expected this morning during a 10 a.m. ET briefing. Everyone benefits: doctor Dr. Michelle Barton-Forbes, an associate professor at Western University's Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry in London Ont., who specializes in pediatric infectious disease, said this could be a game changer for Canada. So ultimately, not only will we help to keep kids from acute COVID-19 and its consequences, we will keep kids healthy and we will also keep them happy as they are allowed to do in-class learning and extracurricular activities, she said. This would also help reduce new adult cases in the community resulting from children with school acquisition who go home and infect their parents and grandparents. It could also help to limit COVID-19-related hospitalizations at a time when other viruses are already driving pediatric hospitalizations and ICU admissions. Caroline Quach, former chair of NACI and a pediatric infectious diseases expert at the University of Montreal, said while it's normal for parents to question whether or not to vaccinate their children, the trials show the vaccine is effective and less reactogenic, meaning a lower proportion of children aged five to 11 experienced fever, fatigue and myalgia compared to those 16 to 25 years old. There were enough children in the Pfizer study to know this with confidence, she said. It is brilliant that we have this vaccine for kids, said Dr. Allison McGeer, infectious diseases specialist and microbiologist at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto.  Although COVID-19 illness isn't usually as serious in children as it is in older adults, she said, it is a non-trivial disease.  It's something most parents will want their children well protected from. Whatever proportion of kids get vaccinated will create a significant reduction in transmission and just let us all get back to something closer to normal, McGeer said. The Canadian Paediatric Society also issued a statement saying it welcomes the vaccine's approval.  As part of its approval, Health Canada is requiring Pfizer-BioNTech to continue providing information to Health Canada on the safety and efficacy of the vaccine in the younger age group. Moderna asks Health Canada to approve its COVID-19 vaccine for children (new window) This will provide the department with more data from ongoing studies and real-world use to ensure that the benefits of the vaccine continue to outweigh any risks, as well as to detect any potential new safety signals in any age group, said the department. Health Canada and the Public Health Agency of Canada will continue to closely monitor the safety of this vaccine and will take action if any safety concerns are identified. CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021