Health scientist Carrie Bourassa on immediate leave after scrutiny of her claim she’s Indigenous | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society Health scientist Carrie Bourassa on immediate leave after scrutiny of her claim she’s Indigenous University of Saskatchewan, CIHR place Bourassa on leave over lack of evidence At the 2019 TEDx talk in Saskatoon, Carrie Bourassa claimed publicly that she is Métis and Anishnaabe and has suffered the effects of racism. Photo: (YouTube.com) RCI Posted: November 2, 2021 7:43 PM Carrie Bourassa, a University of Saskatchewan professor and the scientific director of the Indigenous health arm of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), is on leave from both institutions following a weekend of online outrage stemming from CBC's investigation into her claims to Indigeneity. Carrie Bourassa, a University of Saskatchewan professor and the scientific director of the Indigenous health arm of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), is on leave from both institutions following a weekend of online outrage stemming from CBC's investigation into her claims to Indigeneity. Bourassa, who has headed up an Indigenous research lab at the U of S and the CIHR's Institute of Indigenous Peoples' Health, has publicly claimed to be Métis, Anishnaabe and Tlingit. CBC found there was no evidence  (new window)she was Indigenous, despite her claims many times over the past 20 years. When asked, Bourassa hasn't offered any genealogical evidence to back up her claims, but in a statement she said two years ago she hired a genealogist to help her investigate her ancestry, and that work continues. Just last week, after publication of the CBC story, the CIHR issued a statement supporting Bourassa, saying it values the work of the Institute of Indigenous Peoples' Health under Dr. Carrie Bourassa's leadership. And the U of S also backed her, stating, The quality of Professor Bourassa's scholarly work speaks for itself and has greatly benefited the health of communities across Canada.  Indigenous or Pretender: Colleagues say acclaimed professor has no Indigenous roots (new window) However, on Monday, both institutions announced Bourassa was on immediate leave.  Today I spoke with Dr. Carrie Bourassa, scientific director of the CIHR Institute of Indigenous Peoples' Health (CIHR-IIPH), and we agreed that she will step away from all of her duties as scientific director of the Institute, CIHR president Michael Strong wrote. As such, Dr. Bourassa will be on an indefinite leave without pay effective immediately.. After the initial statements of support from the CIHR and the U of S, many people took to social media to condemn the move, arguing the organizations shouldn't stand by someone who falsified their own ancestry.  Outrage brewing after U of S and CIHR support professor who falsely claimed to be Indigenous (new window) I acknowledge the pain experienced by Indigenous Peoples as a result of this matter, and would like to underscore CIHR's absolute commitment to reconciliation and continuing to accelerate the self-determination of Indigenous Peoples in health research, Strong's statement said. University launches investigation U of S provost Airini announced Bourassa has been placed on leave and an investigation into her claims to Indigeneity has been launched. USask has placed Dr. Bourassa on leave and she is relieved of all her duties as professor in the USask College of Medicine in the Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, the statement said. Dr. Bourassa will not return to any faculty duties during this investigation. The university said it made the move after new information emerged.  The University of Saskatchewan has carefully reviewed the information in interviews and responses from Dr. Carrie Bourassa to recent articles challenging her Indigenous identity, the statement said. The university has serious concerns with the additional information revealed in Dr. Bourassa's responses to the media and with the harm that this information may be causing Indigenous individuals and communities. Bourassa has declined to comment, saying Monday, My PR team will be in touch about any future conversations at that time. The CIHR didn't announce any immediate plans to fill Bourassa's position. I will communicate a plan for the ongoing leadership of the Institute in the coming days, Strong wrote in his statement. The university says it will expedite its investigative process. Geoff Leo (new window) · CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021