Home | Sunday | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Home | Sunday | CBC Radio Loaded The Sunday Magazine with Piya Chattopadhyay Currently Selected: Home About Contact Podcast Music Playlists Documentaries More Latest The Sunday Magazine for November 21, 2021 Parliament returns in the wake of disaster in B.C., Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin shares her own story, Dr. Paul Offit on the value of medical risk and vaccines for kids, and Sharon and Bram look back on four decades of bringing joy to kids. The Sunday Magazine |3 hours ago| Huma Abedin, Hillary Clinton's longtime aide, on staying with a cheating husband and her boss's loss to Trump Huma Abedin, longtime political aide to Hillary Clinton, has emerged from behind her boss and her scandal-plagued husband, former congressman Anthony Weiner, to write her own version of their very public lives in a new memoir. She spoke to The Sunday Magazine's Piya Chattopadhyay. The Sunday Magazine |3 hours ago| New The metaverse is already here. But the dazzling new world Facebook promises is a long way off Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg thrust the metaverse unto the wider world in October. But some developers have been working in virtual spaces for years, and say the vision proposed by Zuckerberg is both old-hat and years away. The Sunday Magazine |November 20| Listen Coping with disaster: What's at stake for the Prime Minister as parliament returns Catastrophic flooding in British Columbia, aggressive trade negotiations in Washington D.C. and a long list of promises made during the election are all on the minds of MPs as they return to Ottawa for the 44th session of Parliament. The Sunday Magazine |3 hours ago Listen Decision to approve COVID-19 vaccine for kids 'nerve-wracking' says American doctor Dr. Paul Offit explores the risks required for medical innovation and weighs in on Health Canada's decision to approve COVID-19 vaccines for kids aged five to 11. The Sunday Magazine |3 hours ago Listen The enduring power of Skinnamarink Sharon Hampson and Bram Morrison of the beloved children's group Sharon, Lois and Bram look back on more than four decades of bringing joy to kids and grown-ups alike. The Sunday Magazine |3 hours ago The Sunday Magazine for November 14, 2021 Dr. Sanjay Gupta explores what this pandemic can teach us about the next one, we chart the origins of the symbols on our keyboard, Sook-Yin Lee celebrates her late partner with new album, and Omar El Akkad talks about his Giller Prize-winning novel What Strange Paradise The Sunday Magazine |November 14| Listen Dr. Sanjay Gupta says the pandemic's akin to war – and we need to shore up our defences In his new book World War C, CNN's chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta argues that we need to take stock of what we've got wrong during the COVID-19 crisis, in order to prepare for the next pandemic. The Sunday Magazine |November 14 Listen Omar El Akkad on how the honesty of childhood reveals the ugliness in our world The author speaks with Piya Chattopadhyay about his Giller Prize-winning novel What Strange Paradise, which grapples with how people treat one another through the lens of the global refugee crisis. The Sunday Magazine |November 14 Listen Hyphens, hashtags, commas, and colons: How the signs and symbols of written language evolved For writer, editor and Hyphens and Hashtags author Claire Cock-Starkey, every hyphen, comma and period indicate just how far communication has come since we first started writing. The Sunday Magazine |November 14 Listen How Sook-Yin Lee's new album helped her cope with the death of her creative & romantic partner To help her cope with creative and romantic partner Adam Litovitz's death, Sook-Yin Lee completed an electro-pop album she had co-created with Litovitz. The album, called 'jooj two', was released last week. The Sunday Magazine |3 hours ago The Sunday Magazine for November 7, 2021 Afghanistan's past, future and the current humanitarian crisis, how the pandemic changed our relationship with reading, the benefits of talking to strangers, youth at COP26, opening the book on Massey Hall, and unearthing the sacred stories behind Leonard Cohen's lyrics. The Sunday Magazine |November 7 How Leonard Cohen's hits were influenced by Christianity and Judaism Leonard Cohen’s beautiful verses from songs such as Hallelujah and You Want It Darker are deeply religious, and according to Harry Freedman, those songs are just two of many where Cohen borrowed from ancient texts. The Sunday Magazine |November 7| LISTEN Sima Samar on Afghanistan's past, future and the current humanitarian crisis Afghanistan's former Vice President and Minister of Women's Affairs, Sima Samar talks about how the international community and the previous government failed the country, the state of human rights there and how to navigate with the Taliban in power. The Sunday Magazine |November 7 LISTEN Why it's good to talk to strangers, now more than ever Even before the pandemic arrived, chatting with strangers had become a lost art. But journalist Joe Keohane is trying to change that. His new book delves into the emerging psychological research demonstrating that small talk can have a big effect, not just for our own mental health but for society.  The Sunday Magazine |November 7 LISTEN Opening the book on Massey Hall Known as "The Carnegie Hall of Canada", Toronto's Massey Hall is one of the most sought-after destinations for musicians in Canada. As the 127-year-old venue prepares to re-open, author David McPherson discusses the history of the hall in his new book Massey Hall: An Enduring Legacy.  The Sunday Magazine |November 7 LISTEN How the pandemic changed our relationship with reading While some people stocked up on best sellers during the pandemic, for others, it wasn't so easy. Some people were locked down with their kids and struggled to find the time to read. The Sunday Magazine's Kristen Nelson explores how Canadians' relationship with reading evolved during the pandemic. The Sunday Magazine |November 7 LISTEN Our youth at COP26 From protests in the streets of Glasgow to literally taking centre stage during presentations at the COP26 climate summit, young people from around the world made it clear to world leaders that they are not willing to settle for less when it comes to the future of the planet. We hear the sounds, voices and goals of the youth movement at COP26. The Sunday Magazine |November 7 The Sunday Magazine for October 31, 2021 Environmentalist David Suzuki on COP26, What Facebook's Meta move could mean for the metaverse, Economist Emily Oster brings business to parenting, Ian Rankin on his new thriller The Dark Remains, Adam Shoalts travels to Labrador to uncover a beastly secret The Sunday Magazine |October 31| Why David Suzuki skipped COP26 — and where he sees glimmers of hope in climate action In recent years, David Suzuki's warnings about the dangers of climate change have become ever more dire. But he sees hope for the future in some surprising situations, including the rapid global response to COVID-19. The Sunday Magazine |November 7| Embracing mistakes can save you from the jaws of defeat, says Terry O'Reilly If it wasn’t for catastrophic mistakes, the Hulk wouldn’t be green, the shark in Jaws might not be as scary, and TV dinners might not exist. That’s why Terry O’Reilly says people need to embrace their blunders. The Sunday Magazine |October 27| Listen Here's what people 'inside' the metaverse say about Facebook's 'Meta' move To some people, the metaverse is a utopian dream of how we’ll connect online in the future. What does Facebook’s entry into the space mean for the dream? We take a trip inside the ‘metaverse’ as it exists today, to find out. The Sunday Magazine |October 31 Listen Economist Emily Oster says you should run your family like a business The last thing parents want when they sign their kids up for piano lessons or soccer, is to become a logistics manager for their family schedule. Economist and data-parenting expert Emily Oster says business ideologies can help parents hack their kid’s after-school schedule, reach their collective goals and make better decisions. The Sunday Magazine |October 31 Listen Two authors, one Scottish crime novel  Scottish writer Ian Rankin. known for his Rebus series of crime novels, discusses the daunting task of finishing The Dark Remains, a book left behind by his friend and colleague William McIlvanney, who died in 2015. The Sunday Magazine |October 31 Listen Investigating the haunting of a Canadian 'ghost town' A hundred years ago, a remote community in Labrador was terrorized by tales of beastly encounters. Explorer Adam Shoalts was so intrigued by those stories, he went to Traverspine to see if he could uncover the truth behind the stories. The Sunday Magazine |October 31Load More Follow The Sunday Magazine Listen to The Sunday Magazine on Podcast Like The Sunday Magazine on Facebook Follow The Sunday Magazine on Twitter Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now