Home | Day 6 | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Home | Day 6 | CBC Radio Loaded Day 6 with Brent Bambury Currently Selected: Home About Contact Podcast Automate This! Impeach-O-Meter More Latest Episode 573 B.C. flooding; Adele's new album; Canadian soccer; policing and AI; Indigenous seed-saving and more Day 6 for Saturday, Nov. 20, 2021. Day 6 |November 20 Listen Flooding in B.C. nearly brought back a lake drained 100 years ago For thousands of years, Sumas Lake was one of the defining features of the Fraser Valley. But about 100 years ago, it was drained to make way for farming and residential lands. This week, the community near Abbotsford, B.C., nearly watched the lake come back as flood water threatened to shut down the local pumping station. Day 6 |November 20 Toronto's police board is seeking the public's input on using artificial intelligence for policing Privacy and surveillance experts say they're cautiously optimistic about a draft policy that outlines how Toronto police will be able to use artificial intelligence systems (AI) — but they add that the devil is in the details. Day 6 |November 20| Indigenous writers paint picture of hopeful future in new essay collection Tackling topics from politics to the environment to economics, the collection features essays written by Indigenous thinkers from across Canada. Day 6 |November 20 Listen Canadian national men's soccer team is poised to make the World Cup for the first time in 35 years The Canadian national men's soccer team defeated Mexico this week in the latest qualifying round for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. There are six games left in the qualifying round, but many people think the men's team stands a real chance at making it to the World Cup for the first time since 1986. Day 6 |November 20 Listen This ecologist's seed-saving project sparked an Indigenous movement to restore grasslands across North America A project, which began with Kainai First Nation in Alberta, at the Fort Belknap Indian Reservation in Montana enlists Indigenous youth to collect and save seeds from healthy plots of native grasses so they can be used to restore areas that have become arid and degraded. Day 6 |November 20 Riffed from the Headlines: 20/11/2021 Riffed from the Headlines is our weekly quiz where we choose three riffs linked by one story in the news. Guess the story that links the riffs and you could win a Day 6 tote bag. Day 6 |November 20 Episode 572 Climate risks to your home; Astroworld fallout; crisis in Ethiopia; Tick, Tick ... Boom! and more Day 6 for Saturday, Nov. 13, 2021. Day 6 |November 13 Q&A Ethiopian PM bears responsibility for escalating conflict in the country, says academic A year-long war in Ethiopia has escalated in recent weeks with government forces going door-to-door, arresting ethnic Tigrayans. Lecturer Awol Allo says that Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed bears the blame for the conflict, which has displaced thousands. Day 6 |November 13| Listen How did the Astroworld music festival turn so deadly, so quickly? Melissa Vincent is a writer, editor and producer and explains the many factors that appear to have contributed to last Friday's disaster at the Astroworld festival in Houston — and the lessons we might be able to draw from it. Day 6 |November 12 Late Rent creator would be touched by Lin-Manuel Miranda's revival of Tick, Tick... Boom, says friend Twenty-five years after his death, Broadway composer Jonathan Larson's legacy lives on in the film adaptation of his 1990 musical, Tick, Tick… Boom. Larson is perhaps best known for creating the hit musical Rent, which became a worldwide phenomenon. Day 6 |November 12| Listen Tucker Carlson says roads can't be racist. People who study infrastructure say he's missing the point Fox News host Tucker Carlson led efforts to ridicule U.S. Transport Secretary Pete Buttigieg for saying he would use the government's new infrastructure bill to fix the racism that's built into the country's highways, bridges and urban design. Angela Wright, a Canadian writer, historian and political analyst, says Buttigieg's approach is long overdue. Day 6 |November 13 Listen This American company wants to help you assess the risk climate change poses to your home The Canadian Institute for Climate Choices released a report last month that found many Canadians are unwittingly buying homes in areas with serious climate-related risks. Enter ClimateCheck, a company that offers climate change risk assessments for homeowners, real estate agents and people looking to buy property. Day 6 |November 12 Riffed from the Headlines: 13/11/2021 Riffed from the Headlines is our weekly quiz where we choose three riffs linked by one story in the news. Guess the story that links the riffs and you could win a Day 6 tote bag. Day 6 |November 13 Episode 571 Billionaires at COP26; NHL confronts sexual assault; QAnon after Trump; Y: The Last Man and more Day 6 for Saturday, Nov. 6, 2021. Day 6 |November 6 Instead of writing big cheques to fight climate change, billionaires should just pay taxes: environmentalist Billionaires, celebrities and royalty were front and centre at this week’s COP26 climate conference, where Amazon founder Jeff Bezos pledged $2 billion to fight climate change. But some experts say the billions pledged are little more than a distraction from the real issues at hand. Day 6 |November 6| Listen Fallout from the Kyle Beach case could provoke a reckoning on how hockey deals with sexual assault: journalist As the NHL faces damning sexual assault allegations, Melissa Burgess, managing editor of SB Nation's Die by the Blade blog, says this could be the beginning of a reckoning on how hockey deals with sexual assault. Day 6 |November 6 Q&A Former Nirvana manager Danny Goldberg on the influence of artists, entertainers on the 2020 U.S. election While many moments of the 2020 U.S. election campaign and the road to inauguration day have been well documented, former Nirvana manager Danny Goldberg says there's an untold story: one that focuses on musicians, actors and artists. Day 6 |November 6| Listen Y: The Last Man comics largely ignored trans people. A new TV adaptation is trying to fix that Y: The Last Man, a new FX series, examines the aftermath of a devastating global plague that kills everyone with a Y chromosome except for a single man and his male monkey. But as the title itself hints, the original comics largely equated sex with gender — leaving little room for trans people or those who don't fit inside the stereotypes of gender essentialism. Day 6 |November 6 Listen John F. Kennedy, Jr. died in 1999. So why is QAnon rallying for his return as Trump's 2024 running mate? On Tuesday, hundreds of QAnon supporters from across the U.S. gathered in downtown Dallas, Texas, believing that John F. Kennedy Jr. — who died in a plane crash in 1999 — would return and announce he would run with former president Donald Trump in 2024. Day 6 |November 6 Riffed from the Headlines: 06/11/2021 Riffed from the Headlines is our weekly quiz where we choose three riffs linked by one story in the news. Guess the story that links the riffs and you could win a Day 6 tote bag. Day 6 |November 6 Episode 570 Climate change and conflict in Afghanistan; a mannequin graveyard; gaming Guardians of The Galaxy; and more Day 6 for Saturday, Oct. 30, 2021. Day 6 |October 30 Increasing conflict in Afghanistan related to ongoing climate change, experts say Afghanistan has been wracked by decades of war and occupation. But former climate negotiator Samim Hoshmand says you cannot talk about the situation in Afghanistan without talking about the role climate change has played in making a bad situation worse. Day 6 |October 30| You can visit a mountain of mannequin parts in the English countryside — and even take some home In a field near the former Royal Air Force station in Fulbeck, England, is Mannakin Hall. The attraction, run by Roz Edwards, is home to various mannequin displays — and a graveyard of the life-size figures, complete with their assorted parts. Day 6 |October 30| Listen What three trials unfolding now could reveal about racism in the American legal system Racism and political violence are front and centre in three U.S. courtrooms this week. The circumstances in each case are different, but Nicole Lewis, senior editor of the Jurisprudence section at Slate, says they all tell the story of the U.S. justice system’s inability to genuinely deal with racism. Day 6 |October 31Load More Follow Day 6 Listen to Day 6 on Podcast Like Day 6 on Facebook Follow Day 6 on Twitter Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now