Home - CBC Contests Sign up and subscribe here to be alerted of contests, promotions and exclusive offers from CBC and its partners. Subscribe View generic contest rules Follow CBC Contests on Twitter View closed contests View generic contest rules Follow CBC Contests on Twitter View closed contests CBC’s Bake it with Canadian Dairy Contest CBC’S Bake it with Canadian Dairy Contest, presented by Dairy Farmers of Canada. Enter for a chance to win one of two perfect baking prize packs, including retail coupons for Canadian dairy products featuring the Blue Cow logo, a $250 Voucher for the Blue Cow Shop, and a collection of Cuisinart Canada goodies: Stand Mixer, Cordless Hand Mixer, Airfryer toaster oven, and six-piece eco-friendly kitchen tool collection. Contest closes December 11, 2021. Enter Now Rules Tweet Closes December 11, 2021 at 11:59 PM CBC’s Bake it with Canadian Dairy Contest CBC’S Bake it with Canadian Dairy Contest, presented by Dairy Farmers of Canada. Enter for a chance to win one of two perfect baking prize packs, including retail coupons for Canadian dairy products featuring the Blue Cow logo, a $250 Voucher for the Blue Cow Shop, and a collection of Cuisinart Canada goodies: Stand Mixer, Cordless Hand Mixer, Airfryer toaster oven, and six-piece eco-friendly kitchen tool collection. Contest closes December 11, 2021. Enter Now Rules Tweet Closes December 11, 2021 at 11:59 PM CBC’s Taste of Fall Contest Enter CBC’S Taste of Fall contest presented by Allen's. Enter for a chance to win the perfect fall combo including a stand mixer, a cookbook to inspire great apple based recipes and some delicious Allen’s Apple juices. Contest closes October 10th. Enter Now Rules Tweet Closes October 10, 2021 at 11:58 PM CBC’s Taste of Fall Contest Enter CBC’S Taste of Fall contest presented by Allen's. Enter for a chance to win the perfect fall combo including a stand mixer, a cookbook to inspire great apple based recipes and some delicious Allen’s Apple juices. Contest closes October 10th. Enter Now Rules Tweet Closes October 10, 2021 at 11:58 PM