Home | Spark with Nora Young | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Home | Spark with Nora Young | CBC Radio Loaded Spark with Nora Young Currently Selected: Home About Contact Podcast Specials Videos More Latest Disruptive tech alone won't revolutionize education, says author When genuine disruption happens, it can create chaos, but it eventually becomes the new normal. What does the pandemic have to teach us about tech and education? And, understanding the long-term trajectory of disruption. Spark |November 19 Diagnosing healthcare's cyber hygiene problem While healthcare professionals have been quick to embrace new technologies, they've also been slow to understand cyber threats. Spark |November 12 Digital mental health care needs to be more accessible Apps shouldn't replace the need for access to professional care, psychiatrist says Spark |November 5 NEXT BIG THING How will we experience music in 2050? With the expansion of virtual technology and the metaverse, we may be able to connect with music in deeper ways than ever before, experts say. Spark |October 29 Q&A 'Poor residents get all the acoustical trash' Epidemiologist Erica Walker looks at the impact of unwanted sound on communities from a public health perspective. Spark |October 22 What noise is doing to our brains Nina Kraus talks about her new book, Of Sound Mind, and reflects on the impact of our contemporary, technologically-infused sonic world. Spark |October 22 Q&A Jeanette Winterson envisions a post-material future in latest book of essays The celebrated writer discusses her recent book of essays, 12 Bytes, and shares her vision of possible AI futures. Spark |October 8 LISTEN Social media platforms 'benefit from the intersections of racism and capitalism' From cultural appropriation to commodified trauma, Black creators and consumers of digital media are increasingly forced to confront a variety of unique challenges on social media platforms. Spark |October 1 Canada's laws need updating to protect against abuse from surveillance tech, watchdog says A look at the far future and nitty gritty present of artificial intelligence and what it might mean for how we relate to one another and the non-human entities that will —and increasingly do— surround us. Spark |October 8| YouTube videos an 'important cultural artifact' of our life, says researcher YouTube has all but a monopoly on online video. What would happen if it were to disappear entirely? Spark |October 15 Something's rotten in the state of the internet, and archivists are worried How do we preserve 'the record' when web pages get taken down, reassigned, or simply disappear? Spark |October 15 NEXT BIG THING What will home look like in 2050? An urban planner, an architect and a museum director discuss the changing idea of "home" and what that might look like five decades from now. Spark |September 24 Since the 60s, countercultures have subverted mainstream tech to connect and build community From the Whole Earth Catalogue to Facebook drag queens: a short history of online counterculture. Spark |September 17 How tech can help build a more sustainable fashion future Our digital tech both facilitates and mitigates waste in the garment industry. But can the technology that ramped up global fashion production also help us build a more sustainable fashion future? Spark |September 10 SPECIAL The Spark Guide to Civilization Each episode in this 10-part series is a deep dive into a single issue in society and how we've managed it over the course of civilization, through technological innovation and design. Spark |October 19 CIVILIZATION How the invention of the lens helped us see the world more clearly The glass lens has allowed us to correct our vision, see the furthest objects in the sky, and the smallest objects on the Earth. Oh, and there's photography and film as well. Spark |June 25 CIVILIZATION Why we became more nostalgic during the pandemic In times of crisis, it seems baked into our humanity to turn to retro and analog activities as a way to cope. Why is cultural nostalgia so often a reaction to the present time? Spark |June 30 CIVILIZATION We're trapped in an upgrade cycle whether we like it or not The origins of planned obsolescence, and the ethics of creating disposable devices in a future of scarcity and climate change. Spark |June 30 CIVILIZATION It wasn't just you - the pandemic really did make it hard to focus on anything Humans have always worried about dwindling attention spans and loss of focus. So why does it feel so extra in the digital age? Spark |June 30| CIVILIZATION Individual privacy is a relatively recent idea in human history The notion of privacy has evolved over thousands of years and is tightly woven with power. What might that mean for our future? Spark |June 30 CIVILIZATION Waking up in the middle of the night? Thank your pre-industrial ancestors Birds do it, bees do it, even educated fleas do it! Everybody sleeps. But how has the way we sleep evolved with the technology we've developed? Spark |June 30| CIVILIZATION How the pandemic put building design and ventilation back into the public health conversation What the historical relationship between public health and public spaces can teach us as we move through the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond. Spark |June 30| CIVILIZATION Planning the future of transportation? Think sustainability, social equity, experts say  How tech from the wheel to just-in-time delivery architecture changed the way humans have been able to move, expand their horizons and shrink their world. Spark |June 30| CIVILIZATION Fifty years of email, the correspondence we love to hate From hieroglyphs to instant messaging, humans have been attempting to perfect the way we correspond with one another. And still, we love to hate to email. Spark |June 30 CIVILIZATION Computer chips that mimic the brain may be the next big thing in computing The history of computing laid the groundwork for today's innovations, such as using the brain as a model for computing. Spark |June 30Load More Follow Spark Listen to Spark on Podcast Like Spark on Facebook Follow Spark on Twitter Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now