Home | The House  | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Home | The House | CBC Radio Loaded The House with Chris Hall Currently Selected: Home About Contact Podcast More Latest Biden may be open to a carve-out for Canada on electric vehicle tax credit, says ex-diplomat The head of a prominent Canada-U.S. business group says she sees the spark of an agreement to allow Canadian companies to qualify for President Joe Biden’s controversial tax credit for electric vehicles. The House |November 20| CBC Radio's The House: Fighting floods, tackling protectionism On this week’s show: B.C. MPs Brad Vis and Richard Cannings react to flooding and landslides in the region and Transport Minister Omar Alghabra talks about building resilient infrastructure and supply chains. Plus — International Trade Minister Mary Ng and cross-border business council head Scotty Greenwood weigh in on the fight to secure a piece of the electric vehicle market and Government House Leader Mark Holland discusses the Liberals’ upcoming legislative priorities. The House |November 20| Farmers say they're ready to cut the carbon in Canada's diet — but they need government help The role of agriculture in climate change didn't get much attention at the COP26 summit — much to the chagrin of activists. "The cow in the room is being ignored," one told the Guardian during the two-week gathering in Glasgow. The House |November 13| CBC Radio's The House: Trouble in the fields On this week’s show: As COP26 wraps up, Canadian farmers on the front lines of climate change pitch environmental solutions and a clean energy advocate dissects international competition in the electric vehicle industry. Three former MPs discuss the pressures facing parties on both sides of the aisle ahead of Parliament’s official return. Plus — a Remembrance Day conversation with an Afghan-Canadian who supported coalition forces in Afghanistan and a look at the politics of soccer in Canada. The House |November 13| CBC Radio's The House: Good COP, bad COP On this week’s show: Laura Lynch, host of CBC's What on Earth, and U.K. climate envoy John Murton discuss pledges at the UN climate conference COP26, and the premier of Newfoundland and Labrador speaks about the cyber attack on his province's health care system. The House |November 6| Canada's new housing minister faces complex, cross-jurisdictional challenges Ahmed Hussen, Canada's new housing minister, faces a series of complex challenges that cross jurisdictional lines as he attempts to tackle this country's housing crisis. News -Politics |October 30| CBC Radio's The House: Meet the ministers On this week’s show: the First Nations Child and Family Caring Society’s Cindy Blackstock reacts to the move to pause litigation in the government’s ongoing First Nations child welfare case. Plus — new Housing Minister Ahmed Hussen details plans to tackle his portfolio, ministers Jonathan Wilkinson and Steven Guilbeault discuss their new climate roles as they head off to COP26, and former ministers Lisa Raitt and Anne McLellan offer their thoughts on the new cabinet. The House |October 30| New climate alliance to push for phasing out oil and gas at upcoming climate conference A new climate alliance led by Denmark and Costa Rica is pushing countries to set a date for the end of oil and gas extraction in their countries — but Canada seems unlikely to join. News -Politics |October 24| CBC Radio's The House: Is COP26 our 'last, best hope'? On this week’s show: Guest host Laura Lynch offers a primer on the negotiations and deal-making expected at COP26, the UN climate summit kicking off in Glasgow next week. Plus — Denmark’s climate ambassador maps out his country’s efforts to transition away from fossil fuels and get other nations on board, and the Maldivian foreign minister and president of the UN General Assembly discusses the biggest climate threats facing island nations and the need for rich countries to help out. The House |October 23| 'That was hell for us': Former Canadian Forces contractor on his flight from Afghanistan, debate over aid An Afghan man who worked as a contractor with the Canadian Armed Forces is safe with his family in Pakistan, one of thousands who have fled the country now in desperate need of international economic support. The House |October 16 Global tax accord could earn Canada up to $4.5 billion per year, says Freeland Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland says Canada stands to make as much as $4.5 billion dollars a year through a landmark deal involving 136 countries that will require the world's largest corporations to pay their fair share of taxes. News -Politics |October 16| CBC Radio's The House: A dose of reality On this week’s show: Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland explains a new global tax deal and discusses the future of federal COVID-19 supports. Canadian Federation of Nurses Unions president Linda Silas explores the possible impact of vaccine mandates on the health care system. Plus — experts debunk the dewormer conspiracy and a former contractor for the CAF shares the story of his family’s long-awaited flight out of Afghanistan. The House |October 16| Defeated Tory MP says review of Conservatives' election loss will examine O'Toole's performance The defeated Conservative MP now tasked with determining where his party's federal election campaign went wrong says he intends to "hit the ground running" within the week — and his work will include an examination of leader Erin O'Toole's campaign performance. News -Politics |October 9| CBC Radio's The House: Planes, trains and vaccines On this week’s show: Transport Minister Omar Alghabra describes mandatory vaccination rules for travellers and federal workers. Premier Blaine Higgs explains New Brunswick’s latest restrictions, tightened for Thanksgiving weekend. Plus — CBC’s Bartley Kives looks at the race to become Manitoba’s next PC premier, former Conservative MP James Cumming outlines his forthcoming review of the party’s election performance, and two disinformation experts discuss possible efforts to rein in Facebook. The House |October 9| The fight to free the Michaels: Canada's ambassador to the U.S. describes the months before their release About a month before two Canadians detained in China were flown home in a sudden move that stunned observers of Canada-China relations, Beijing was sending signals to Canadian diplomats that it was moving closer to a resolution on the file. News -Politics |October 2| Days of rage: Angry voters brought new tensions to the 2021 campaign trail Scott Simms ran in seven federal elections, winning six of them. And while he came to terms fairly easily with his 264-vote loss on September 20, the long-time Liberal MP is having a harder time accepting the anger he experienced on the campaign trail in his largely rural riding in central Newfoundland. The House |October 2| CBC Radio's The House: Trust, truth and reconciliation On this week’s show: Kirsten Hillman, Canada’s ambassador to the U.S., expands on the efforts to free Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor. Environment Minister Jonathan Wilkinson looks ahead to COP26. AFN National Chief RoseAnne Archibald reflects on the first National Day for Truth and Reconciliation. Plus — former top bureaucrat Michael Wernick warns of a “virus of intolerance” in politics and longtime MP Scott Simms bids farewell to the Hill. The House |October 2| CBC Radio's The House: Kovrig, Spavor return home On this week’s show: two former diplomats and an expert on Canada-China relations discuss the release of Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor from prison in China. Plus, CBC reporters on how the major party leaders are faring post-election; strategists dissect the campaigns and what lies ahead for Parliament; and, in a podcast extra, a former provincial PC cabinet member discusses Alberta’s political and health crises. The House |September 25| Vaccine mandates and passports loom large in the election's final days The controversy over whether the federal government should require vaccinations for some people or implement a vaccine passport system is playing a role in some key swing ridings, including King-Vaughan in the Greater Toronto Area. The House |September 18| CBC Radio's The House: Running through the 6ix for your votes On this week’s show: The House zooms in on the GTA to explore issues that matter to voters in the hotly contested ridings of King–Vaughan and Davenport. Plus — a look at what Canadians should expect on election day and when results will be available; a debate over vaccine passports; reporter postcards from the campaign trail; and, in a podcast extra, Éric Grenier’s analysis of the last public polls before election day. The House |September 18| Federal parties stick-handle climate change, energy and economy in Alberta Conservatives expect a near-sweep in Alberta, but a handful of ridings remain at play in September election. The House |September 11| CBC Radio's The House: The campaign in wild rose country On this week’s show: A special edition of The House co-produced with CBC’s West of Centre podcast looks at the federal election in Alberta, starting with the story of a former oil and gas worker on his effort to switch careers. Plus — three strategists discuss the province’s politics; an Edmonton NDP candidate on his party’s vision; two journalists break down the English leaders’ debate; and, as a podcast extra, a look at the latest national polls. The House |September 11| Analysis In Quebec, no party has an easy path to victory The road to victory in national elections always passes through Quebec. The only question is whether the province with 78 seats to offer comes with roadblocks or a fast lane. The House |September 4| CBC Radio's The House: A crucial Quebec campaign On this week’s show: An in-depth look at the race to win votes in Quebec as The House hears from voters and candidates in the Eastern Townships. Plus — three party strategists break down new campaign developments with just two weeks to go; three MP hopefuls debate the merits of their parties’ taxation and spending policies; and, exclusive to the podcast, a snapshot of the latest national polls and a look at the risk of misinformation. The House |September 4| CBC Radio's The House: The ones Canada left behind On this week’s show: Afghans convey their distress over being left behind after the last Canadian flight departed Kabul and Foreign Affairs Minister Marc Garneau answers questions about what comes next. Plus — a deep dive into the issue of housing as experts dissect the major parties’ promises to make homes more affordable; road reflections from CBC’s campaign reporters; a look at the soundtrack to the 2021 election; and a snapshot of where the parties currently stand in the polls in a podcast exclusive. The House |August 28|Load More Follow CBC The House Listen to CBC The House on Podcast Follow CBC The House on Twitter Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now