Home | Under The Influence with Terry O'Reilly | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Home | Under The Influence with Terry O'Reilly | CBC Radio Loaded Under The Influence with Terry O'Reilly Currently Selected: Home About Contact Podcast More Latest The most-visited cemetery in the world Cemetery tourism is becoming a fast-growing segment of the tourist industry. People plan their travel and vacations around the location of certain cemeteries. But one in particular draws the most visitors each year. Under the Influence |June 10 The percentage of Broadway shows that break even may surprise you Every Broadway show is mounted with incredible risk and a staggering number of productions never earn back their initial investments. Under the Influence |June 3 This rookie card recently sold for $3.25 million Baseball is a sport with legendary players and die-hard fans. It’s also a very collectible sport. Baseball trading cards are some of the most valuable in the world, and some cards sell for millions. Under the Influence |May 27 The unexpected reason Ringo Starr sang one song on each Beatles album It wasn't because of Ringo's unique voice. It wasn't just to be fair. It was actually a marketing decision. Under the Influence |May 20 Before Queen, this was Freddie Mercury's day job To pay tribute to the late, great Freddie Mercury on his birthday, British Airways staged a full-fledged airport performance to surprise travellers. Under the Influence |April 29 A hot air balloon towing a car went missing over Uxbridge A 1980's shoot for a Chevrolet Cavalier TV ad involving a brand new car and a hot air balloon went terribly awry. Under the Influence |April 28 These celebrities make their phone numbers public Meet the app that allows fans to text their favourite celebrities directly. Under the Influence |April 15 How failing at fractions saved the Quarter Pounder A&W tried to give McDonald's famous Quarter Pounder hamburger a run for its money. What happened next may surprise you. Under the Influence |April 8 These actors have won awards for worst performance The Golden Raspberry Awards, also known as the Razzies, celebrates the year's cinematic under-achievements. And many famous names are proud - or not so proud - recipients. Under the Influence |April 1 How a Toronto music school attracted Taylor Swift When the government cut grants to school music programs, the Regent Park School of Music swiftly took matters into their own hands. Under the Influence |March 25 Three products you didn't know were named after their inventors Did you know there was a man named Nacho? What about a Mrs. Granny Smith? Or how about a Mr. Leotard? Some products are so cemented in our minds we forget their names once belonged to real people. Under the Influence |March 18 The inventor of the Rubik's Cube took this long to first solve it The current world record is 3.47 seconds. But back in 1974 when inventor Erno Rubik first came up with the best-selling game, it took him a wee bit longer. Under the Influence |March 13 This famous spokes-animal had its own secretary When a celebrity reaches a certain level of fame, they require a personal assistant to handle fan mail. Under the Influence |March 4 The day John Lennon made history in the sky over Toronto Why John Lennon and Yoko Ono hired a famous skywriter to send a some celestial messages. Under the Influence |February 25 Why plastic surgery is booming during Covid Lipstick and deodorant sales may be down, but Botox and fillers are up 90 per cent. Under the Influence |February 18 The super valuable treasure one man found in the walls of his home Back in the 1930s, it was common to insulate homes using newspaper. But when one man renovated his house, he came across something completely unexpected. Under the Influence |February 4| How J. Edgar Hoover accidentally invented the Ten Most Wanted poster Over 490 Most Wanted fugitives have been apprehended by the FBI, one-third of which were captured thanks to tips from the public. Under the Influence |January 28 How a detective used a disguise to save the life of a president A fateful train ride and a floppy hat changed the course of history in more ways than one. Under the Influence |January 21 Why the "Can you hear me now?" guy sprinted to another brand When a spokesperson switches companies, it can attract a lot of attention. Under the Influence |January 14 Why an episode of The Golden Girls was removed in 2020 The final episode aired almost 30 years ago when Bea Arthur’s character marries and moves away, breaking up the gang. So it may surprise you to learn The Golden Girls got into a little bit of trouble this past year. Under the Influence |January 7 Feature Under the Influence is back! Under the Influence is back for its 10th season (and Terry's 16th year on CBC Radio). And we've got a fun season planned for you. Under the Influence |January 7 Quarantine 4-Pack: Movies A two hour podcast playlist for our cinephile listeners. Under the Influence |October 15, 2020 He's been putting out fires for 75 years — but do you know his name? "The Mandela Effect" is a term for collective false memory — when a group of people misremembers a fact the same way. A phenomenon this famous bear knows all too well. Under the Influence |June 18, 2020 How the Spanish Flu wasn't Spanish at all Over 100 years later, it's still remembered as the Spanish Flu. But the pandemic didn't originate in Spain. Under the Influence |June 11, 2020 Why sometimes the best way to sell a product is to increase its price An interesting lesson in marketing from one Bruce Lee. Under the Influence |June 4, 2020Load More Follow CBC Under The Influence Listen to CBC Under The Influence on Podcast Like CBC Under The Influence on Facebook Follow CBC Under The Influence on Twitter Follow CBC Under The Influence on Instagram Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now