How is the B.C. flooding disaster affecting you? | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More How is the B.C. flooding disaster affecting you? | CBC Radio Loaded Cross Country Checkup·Live How is the B.C. flooding disaster affecting you? Devastating floods in British Columbia have forced thousands to evacuate their homes — and the province to declare a third state of emergency this year. Are you prepared for the next extreme weather event? Social Sharing Are you prepared for the next extreme weather event? Call us: 1-888-416-8333 CBC Radio · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 3:07 PM ET | Last Updated: 32 minutes ago Volunteers from the community fill and deliver sandbags to farms in the Sumas Prairie flood zone in Yarrow, B.C., on Friday. (Ben Nelms/CBC) comments Devastating floods in British Columbia have forced thousands to evacuate their homes — and the province to declare a third state of emergency this year. Railways, highways and bridges were snapped in two, snagging critical supply chains. Farmland, homes and farm animals washed away. An atmospheric river that dumped record-setting rainfall on parts of the province is to blame. Now, the province begins the challenge of cleaning up as restrictions on fuel purchases and travel are imposed. Our question this week: How is the B.C. flooding disaster affecting you? Are you prepared for the next extreme weather event? Travel and gas restrictions now in place as flood cleanup underway in B.C. Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part B.C. has never used the national Alert Ready system. Facing disaster after disaster, that might soon change Q&AB.C. agriculture minister asks farmers not to risk their lives to reach flood-stranded animals Tales of fear, rescue, Hope and heartbreak from B.C.'s week of floods and landslides 'I have nothing left': Merritt, B.C., family asking for help after losing home Tell us what you think: Call us at 1-888-416-8333, email us, or find us on Facebook and Twitter. Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now