How I became friends with a teenage girl in Afghanistan — and what happened to her when the Taliban arrived | CBC Documentaries Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch documentaries CBC Docs The Nature of Things CBC Docs POV The Passionate Eye Short Docs documentary Channel More How I became friends with a teenage girl in Afghanistan — and what happened to her when the Taliban arrived | CBC Documentaries Loaded Short Docs How I became friends with a teenage girl in Afghanistan — and what happened to her when the Taliban arrived The documentary ‘Fatima in Kabul’ shows a young woman living through the Taliban’s return to power Social Sharing The documentary ‘Fatima in Kabul’ shows a young woman living through the Taliban’s return to power Brishkay Ahmed · Posted: Oct 22, 2021 9:15 AM ET | Last Updated: October 22 Fatima came of age during Afghanistan’s rebuilding years and grew up with technology at her fingertips; like most teenagers, she spends a lot of time on her phone. The short documentary 'Fatima in Kabul,' shows how her video and audio messages changed as the Taliban approached Kabul in the summer of 2021. (CBC / Fatima in Kabul ) comments By: Brishkay Ahmed, director of Fatima in Kabul Fatima and I became friends through Facebook. I first heard about her from a former colleague in 2017. He had seen Fatima on BBC News, talking about how her mother had been killed in a suicide bomb attack in Kabul. She had just turned 17.  My colleague was moved by Fatima's story. He knew that I had been working in Afghanistan and thought I might be able to help her somehow. I watched the interview and my heart wanted to reach out to her. She was a young woman with a lot of responsibilities inside a dangerous city. So I contacted a friend at the BBC and got her contact information. WATCH Fatima in Kabul on CBC Gem In late 2017, Fatima and I began talking through Facebook.  In 2018, I went to Afghanistan to film a documentary. I needed a female assistant to help me film inside ZAN TV (the women's news network) in Kabul. I offered this job to Fatima. I thought it would be good to train her, to help her gain some skills; plus it was an opportunity for her to work in a safe environment. Between 2018 and 2020, I returned to Kabul many times to film that documentary. Each time, Fatima helped me more and more. Slowly, we became reliable friends. Fatima graduated from high school and was accepted into Kabul University's theatre department. I was planning to go back to film her unfolding life in 2020 when the pandemic got in the way. We both became confined to our nation, city and home. But we continued talking via Facebook and WhatsApp, and our exchanges became the backbone of the documentary Fatima in Kabul. Fatima has always wanted to share her life experiences with the world. She began by speaking up about her mother to the BBC, then she spoke to me about her own unfolding experiences. She's a young woman who grew up in the digital age; expressing her realities is part of her identity. She did not have any reservations about being filmed or filming herself (something she learned to do when she started working for me in 2018).  In Fatima in Kabul, you see our conversations slowly shifting from daily life to Fatima's future. Our voice and video messages, back and forth, show how quickly things changed for her. Life in Kabul changed quickly in 2021. Fatima's conversations with 'Fatima in Kabul' director Brishkay Ahmed went from life updates and selfies to worrying how she would take care of her younger sister and ailing father under Taliban rule. (CBC / Fatima in Kabul) At the beginning of the film, she's telling me about school holidays and sharing selfies with funny filters. As the date of the U.S. withdrawal approaches, she tells me that she bought a new hijab because she's afraid of being harassed and assaulted by men in her neighbourhood.  In August, as the Taliban approaches, she tells me she heard that they are taking women over 15 for forced marriages. She's terrified about what might happen to her, and worries about how she'll be able to take care of her ailing father and younger sister. I sensed that fulfilling that duty and obligation would be impossible for her under the Taliban regime. Unfortunately, when the Taliban arrived in Kabul, she had to do what many other Afghans did: escape. There was no choice for Fatima. She was a young Hazara woman without any protection. She had to leave.  Leaving was not easy, but she is now safe outside Afghanistan.  We still talk all the time. Watch Fatima in Kabul on CBC Gem. Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now