Jade Markus - Digital journalist | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Jade Markus - Digital journalist | CBC Loaded Jade Markus Digital journalist Jade Markus is a digital journalist at CBC Calgary. Latest from Jade Markus Calgary rugby player reported to be among those killed in B.C. mudslide A Calgary father killed in a mudslide in British Columbia this week is described by his friends as a passionate family man and active member of the city’s rugby community.  Canada -Calgary |4 hours ago 'Caught between 2 bureaucracies': Why this pregnant Alberta nurse may have to pay for her health care Justine Friedlander is a registered nurse providing care to Albertans, but soon some of those services could cost her thousands. Canada -Calgary |November 18 This Calgary area hit 99% vaccination among those eligible One Calgary area is bucking provincial trends for vaccination rates with a whopping 99 per cent of residents vaccinated.  Canada -Calgary |November 14 Alberta minister doesn't have authority to remove Calgary Coun. Sean Chu, law firm finds Alberta’s Minister of Municipal Affairs, Ric McIver, does not have the authority to remove Calgary Coun. Sean Chu, according to the law firm looking into the matter.  Canada -Calgary |November 13 Alberta's 4th wave of COVID-19 has delayed 15,000 surgeries The number of surgeries delayed in Alberta by the fourth wave of the pandemic has reached 15,000 — nearly double what it was a month ago — as the province cancelled procedures and reallocated resources to COVID-19 patients, the health minister said Thursday.  Canada -Calgary |November 5 2 separate vandalisms in Calgary disrespectful, show 'dark history,' Indigenous educator says Two separate incidents of vandalism at Indigenous sites in one week shows the need for more education, a Blood Tribe educator says. Canada -Calgary |November 1 'Fever pitch': Rallies for and against Calgary Coun. Sean Chu held at the same time Sunday Protesters chanted at each other from opposite sides of the street as two rallies — one calling for Ward 4 Coun. Sean Chu's resignation, and another defending him — took place in downtown Calgary on Sunday. Canada -Calgary |October 24 Calgary Coun. Sean Chu announces he will not be stepping down from city council Ward 4 Coun. Sean Chu says he will not be stepping down, amid calls for him to do so from his colleagues.  Canada -Calgary |October 22 Calgary man charged in fatal downtown shooting after national search Calgary police have charged a man in connection with the fatal shooting of John Smith Jr., a 31-year-old basketball player and volunteer mentor. Canada -Calgary |October 22 'No clear motive:' Suspect in custody after 4 injured in violent attacks in downtown Calgary Calgary police have a suspect in custody after four people were injured in a series of random attacks in the downtown core early Friday morning that sent three victims to hospital. Canada -Calgary |October 16Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now