Jean Chrétien says he never heard about abuse in residential schools while he was minister | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Politics Jean Chrétien says he never heard about abuse in residential schools while he was minister Chrétien also said in his experience at a conventional boarding school, he 'never had a problem' Former prime minister Jean Chrétien, now 87, appeared on the Radio-Canada talk show Tout le Monde en Parle on Sunday night. Photo: Radio-Canada RCI Posted: October 25, 2021 6:06 PM WARNING: This story contains details some readers may find distressing. Former prime minister Jean Chrétien said Sunday that during his tenure as minister of what was then Indian Affairs, he never heard anything about abuse happening in residential schools.  Chrétien made the comments during an appearance on the popular Radio-Canada talk show, Tout le Monde en Parle. This problem was never mentioned when I was minister. Never, said Chrétien, now 87, of his time in the department from 1968 to 1974. During the French interview, Chrétien appeared to draw a comparison between his own experience attending a conventional college boarding school as a teenager to that of Indigenous children who were forced to attend residential schools. I ate baked beans and oatmeal. And to be sure, it was hard living in a boarding school, extremely hard. Here in Quebec, we had to [in order to get into university], he said. In Shawinigan, we didn't have a college. We had to go to Trois-Rivières or to Joliette, he explained. We had no choice. It was hard but my parents insisted I go to university and I had to do it. Chrétien said while he didn't enjoy sleeping in a dorm with 200 others, he never had a problem. Stories of physical and sexual abuse of Indigenous children in residential schools were documented in the 2015 Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Ottawa pledges $320 million to search for residential school graves and support survivors (new window) More recently, discoveries of unmarked graves on residential school sites have once again brought the issue to the forefront. Innu author critical of former PM's comments The former prime minister's comment drew the ire of another guest on the talk show, Innu author Michel Jean. Respectfully, I don't think Mr. Chrétien knows exactly what residential schools are, he said. The word boarding school makes people think it was a school where we teach people to write, but it wasn't that. Innu author Michel Jean pushed back against the comments made by Jean Chrétien during the interview. Photo: Radio-Canada / Karine Dufour He said that while Chrétien might recall eating poor-quality food, it doesn't compare to what children in residential schools were subjected to. My mother's cousin told me that when there was duck, the nuns would keep the duck meat and cut the feet off, with its toenails still on, boil that in water, and that's what they gave to the kids. Jean described how members of his own family suffered abuse in residential schools. There is someone in my family who attended a residential school in Fort George who was sexually assaulted every day for eight years by a nun, said Jean. It was called a boarding school, but it was not a school. 'We can't rewrite history' Chrétien, who appeared on the talk show to discuss his new book, said that he was aware of the existence of residential schools, but not what was going on there. In Chrétien's autobiographical book, the former prime minister recounts an anecdote where he advised Queen Elizabeth not to apologize to the Maori people of New Zealand for the harm done to them by the British colonial administration. Chrétien writes in the book that he told her: Your Majesty, if you start [apologizing] I will have to bring you to Canada and, since we have several hundred Indigenous communities, you will be on your knees for at least two years. When asked about this, Chrétien said it's fine to apologize, but we can't rewrite history. Terrible things happened. Chrétien went on to defend his record, saying he tried to improve the lives of Indigenous people in Canada, both personally and politically. Quebec's residential school system started later than most in Canada — and also has history of abuse (new window) I even adopted an Indigenous son, to lead by example, he said. This proves my investment in this issue. The last of the residential school sites in Canada closed in 1997, while Chrétien was prime minister. How to get help Support is available for anyone affected by their experience at residential schools, and for those triggered by the latest reports. A national Indian Residential School Crisis Line has been set up to provide support for residential school survivors and those affected. People can access emotional and crisis referral services by calling the 24-hour national crisis line: 1-866-925-4419. CBC News with files from Radio-Canada, Kate McKenna Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021