Kelley O'Hara lifts Spirit to its 1st NWSL title over Red Stars in extra time | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Soccer MLS CPL More Soccer Kelley O'Hara lifts Spirit to its 1st NWSL title over Red Stars in extra time | CBC Sports Loaded Soccer Kelley O'Hara lifts Spirit to its 1st NWSL title over Red Stars in extra time Kelley O'Hara scored in the 97th minute and the Washington Spirit won the National Women's Soccer League championship with a 2-1 extra time victory over the Chicago Red Stars on Saturday in Louisville, Ky. Social Sharing 10-team league set to add Los Angeles' Angel City FC, San Diego Wave next season The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 4:17 PM ET | Last Updated: November 20 Spirit's Andi Sullivan, left, and Kelley O'Hara, right, celebrate with the championship trophy after defeating Red Stars 2-1 in extra time to win the first NWSL title in franchise history on Saturday in Louisville, Ky. (Tim Nwachukwu/Getty Images) comments Kelley O'Hara scored in the 97th minute and the Washington Spirit won the National Women's Soccer League championship with a 2-1 extra time victory over the Chicago Red Stars on Saturday. The championship game closes a tumultuous ninth season for the league. The Spirit had to forfeit a pair of games this season because of coronavirus issues. The team played under interim coach Kris Ward after Richie Burke was fired in September for violating the league's anti-harassment policy. It was the first league championship for the Spirit, who advanced to the semifinals with a 2-1 victory over second-seeded OL Reign. O'Hara, a defender who was on the U.S. national team that won the World Cup in 2015 and 2019, scored her first goal of the season. Her game-winning, back-post header came off a pass from Trinity Rodman, the NWSL Rookie of the Year. WATCH | Spirit celebrate 1st NWSL title in franchise history: Washington Spirit celebrate 1st NWSL title in franchise history 1 day ago 1:32Kelley O'Hara's 1st goal of the season in extra time stands as the winner in the Spirit's 2-1 win over the Chicago Red Stars in the NWSL final. 1:32 O'Hara called it "the best feeling ever" to be ending the season as champions. "I can't describe it, because of everything we've been though, and the fact that we're ending it as NWSL champions is pretty crazy and very special," O'Hara said. "I'm really proud of this team. People have no idea what we've all gone through, and the resiliency and the perseverance of every single player on this team is pretty incredible." Mallory Pugh, who didn't play in the semifinals because of COVID-19 protocol, started for the Red Stars but left the game in first-half stoppage time with an apparent injury. Shortly after her departure, Rachel Hill scored off a cross from Arin Wright to give the Red Stars a 1-0 lead. Chicago downed the top-seeded Portland Thorns 2-0 in the semifinal. NWSL ROUNDUPSpirit, Red Stars head to NWSL championship with Sinclair's Thorns ousted Earlier in the game, Chicago's Vanessa DiBernardo was subbed off with an injury. Despite their struggles, the Spirit's roster included Golden Boot winner Ashley Hatch and Goalkeeper of the Year Aubrey Bledsoe, as well as Rodman, the daughter of former NBA player Dennis Rodman. "We've overcome so much, but we did it together," Bledsoe said. "We never quit, we never gave up on each other, and that second half, that shows exactly who we are." Rodman nearly tied the game in the 61st minute with a blast from distance that hit the post. But the Spirit pulled even a short time later when captain Andi Sullivan made a penalty kick that beat Chicago goalkeeper Cassie Miller. WATCH | O'Hara's 1st goal of season brings NWSL title to Washington: Kelley O'Hara's 1st goal of season lifts Spirit past Red Stars for NWSL title 1 day ago 1:03Washington Spirit defender Kelley O'Hara nets the winner in extra time to give the Spirit a 2-1 victory over the Chicago Red Stars in the NWSL championship match. 1:03 Chicago had a chance in the second extra time period on Makenzy Doniak's shot, but it was deftly stopped by Bledsoe. "Certainly going to sting but incredibly proud of the team and the players, they never quit," Chicago coach Rory Dames said. "Got two chances late in the second overtime to still try to knot it up, and I think that kind of epitomizes the team. The never give up. They never stop. They always beleived in themselves and each other and hey played until the end, and as a coach that's all you can ask." More soccer coverage The Red Stars were also playing without goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher, who was injured while playing for the United States in the Olympics, as well as Julie Ertz, who was hurt for most of the season, and Kaelia Watt, who went down with a knee injury during the semifinal. Games were cancelled and players protested during the season after North Carolina coach Paul Riley was accused by two former players of sexual harassment and coercion, allegations he denied. Independent outside investigations Burke's dismissal came shortly before Riley was fired in the wake of the serious allegations leveled against him by former players Sinead Farrelly and Mana Shim. After those reports, NWSL Commissioner Lisa Baird resigned and the NWSL and U.S. Soccer commissioned independent outside investigations. The league canceled a weekend of games, and when play resumed players stopped matches momentarily to gather in a circle at midfield, in a quiet show of unity. WATCH | Bring It In panel on how NWSL scandal came to be: Breaking down the NWSL - Paul Riley Scandal | Bring It In 2 months ago 11:34Morgan Campbell, Shireen Ahmed and Meghan McPeak discuss the NWSL's scandal alledging Paul Riley's involvement in abusive behaviour and sexual conduct while head coach of the North Carolina Courage and Portland Thorns. 11:34 Fans at Saturday's championship match had signs reading "Sell the team, Steve" in reference to Spirit owner Steve Baldwin. OL Reign coach Farid Benstiti was also dismissed over the summer following an incident in practice where he was accused of behaving inappropriately. NWSL's abuse scandal reveals normalization of toxic culture in sports NWSL will partner with players association to investigate cases of misconduct Next season, the 10-team league will expand to 12 teams with the addition of Angel City FC in Los Angeles and the San Diego Wave. The announced attendance for the championship game at Lynn Family Stadium was 10,360. It was the second time the title game had gone to extra time. Broadcast on CBS, the game came a day after Nike announced it had extended its sponsorship deal with the league. WATCH | Olympic champion Erin McLeod on the 'systemic failure' of the NWSL: Orlando Pride Goalkeeper Erin McLeod on the ‘systemic failure’ of the NWSL to protect its players 1 month ago 8:04CBC’s Anastasia Bucsis sits down with Olympian Erin McLeod in the wake of the Paul Riley sexual coercion allegations to discuss how the league failed its players, the systemic issues that allowed the abuse to take place, and what’s next for the league. 8:04 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories NWSL ROUNDUP Spirit, Red Stars head to NWSL championship with Sinclair's Thorns ousted NWSL will partner with players association to investigate cases of misconduct NWSL's abuse scandal reveals normalization of toxic culture in sports NWSL's Courage fires head coach Paul Riley over misconduct allegations from players NWSL ROUNDUP U.S. soccer legend Carli Lloyd plays final match as Red Stars eliminate Gotham FC More soccer coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now