Key COVID-19 numbers in the Ottawa area today | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Key COVID-19 numbers in the Ottawa area today | CBC News Loaded Ottawa Key COVID-19 numbers in the Ottawa area today Ottawa Public Health (OPH) reported 55 more COVID-19 cases and no new deaths. Social Sharing Ottawa reports 55 more COVID-19 cases but no new deaths CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 2:45 PM ET | Last Updated: 1 hour ago A runner makes their way through downtown Ottawa during the COVID-19 pandemic. On Sunday, the city's health officials reported 55 new cases of the illness but no new deaths. (Trevor Pritchard/CBC) comments Ottawa reported 55 more cases of COVID-19 Sunday and no new deaths.   Many of its key numbers remain stable. Today's Ottawa update Ottawa Public Health (OPH) reported 55 more COVID-19 cases Sunday and no new deaths. It's the highest number of cases reported in a single day since early October.  The city has 368 known active cases. Numbers to watch 4: Eligible residents who are unvaccinated or who received their first dose less than two weeks ago are four times more likely to contract COVID-19 than those who are fully vaccinated, according to data up to Nov. 12. 0.93: The number of people infected by a single COVID-19 case, or R(t). The rate of spread is considered under control when the number is below one. 26: The overall weekly incidence rate, a rolling seven-day total of new COVID-19 cases expressed per 100,000 residents. 30: The number of active COVID-19 outbreaks in Ottawa, one more than on Saturday. 17: The number of Ottawa residents currently being treated for active COVID-19 in an Ottawa hospital. All are over the age of 40. 3: The number of those Ottawa patients in an intensive care unit, one more than on Saturday. 838,253: The number of eligible Ottawa residents with one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine as of Friday. 809,372: The number of eligible Ottawa residents who are fully vaccinated. 91%: The percentage of Ottawa residents age 12 and up who've had at least one vaccine dose. 88%: The percentage of Ottawa residents age 12 and up who are fully vaccinated. Every age group is at least around 90 per cent fully vaccinated, except 18 to 29 and 30 to 39, which are each below 80 per cent. Across the region CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Updated What you need to know about COVID-19 in Ottawa on Sunday, Nov. 21 Ontario reports 741 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now