L.M. Montgomery's classic Anne of Green Gables named most translated Canadian book | CBC Books Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch books CBC Literary Prizes Canada Reads Canada Writes Reading Lists This Place Contact Us More L.M. Montgomery's classic Anne of Green Gables named most translated Canadian book | CBC Books Loaded Books L.M. Montgomery's classic Anne of Green Gables named most translated Canadian book The map created by Preply showcases the most translated books in each country and continent. Social Sharing Vicky Qiao · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 9:50 AM ET | Last Updated: November 18 Anne of Green Gables by L.M. Montgomery, pictured above in 1891, is a classic Canadian novel that is beloved around the world. (The Canadian Press/University of Guelph, Spark Photo Festival) comments Great stories aren't bound by time or space — they transcend borders and languages. A recent report on the most translated book in the world shows that good books travel far. The map created by Preply showcases the most translated books in each country and continent. Anne of Green Gables, the classic coming-of-age tale by Lucy Maud Montgomery, is the most translated Canadian book. It has been translated into over 36 languages. Montgomery's story of the orphaned red-headed Anne Shirley is one of Canada's most famous pieces of literature. Anne of Green Gables was first published in 1908 and has since sold more than 50 million copies, spawned stage musicals, television shows and movies, ballet and more. It has made Time Magazine's list of the 100 best young adult (YA) books of all time. 75 facts you might not know about Anne of Green Gables and author Lucy Maud Montgomery Born in Prince Edward Island in 1874, Montgomery started writing poetry and keeping a journal from the age of nine. She wrote her first and most famous novel, Anne of Green Gables, in 1905. WATCH | Reflecting on L.M. Montgomery's life and career: Lucy Maud Montgomery's long road to fame 25 years ago 7:40Montgomery pursues her writing career in turn-of-the-century P.E.I. 7:40 The most translated book from Europe — and any other continent by a landslide — is The Little Prince by French author Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. The timeless novella has been translated into more than 382 languages worldwide. Preply's map of the most translated books from around the globe. (Preply) "We conducted our study and created these maps to showcase the literature the world has to offer and highlight noteworthy authors from across the globe,"' Amy Pritchett, Student Success Manager at Preply, told CBC Books in an email.  The Way to Happiness by L. Ron Hubbard is the most translated from the United States and North America. The Alchemist by Brazilian author Paulo Cohelo is the most translated text from South America.  The Upright Revolution: Or Why Humans Walk Upright by Kenyan author Ng?g? wa Thiong'o is the most translated book from Africa. The most translated titles in Asia are Japan's Norwegian Wood by Haruki Murakami and India's Autobiography of a Yogi by Paramahansa Yogananda. For the continent of Oceania, the most translated goes to The Thorn Birds by Australian author Colleen McCullough. "Authors are writing amazing books in a variety of languages around the world but only a fraction are translated into different languages," Pritchett said.  "We hope that this resource will give everyone a great place to start reading books that have been translated and enjoy global literature at its best." You can find the maps for different regions on the Preply website. Related Stories Fall Reading List 34 great Canadian books to check out in fall 2021 30 Canadian books coming out in November we can't wait to read Margaret Atwood, L.M. Montgomery, Carol Shields featured on BBC's list of 100 novels that shaped the world Looking back at 20 years of Canada Reads, the great Canadian book debate Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now