Lake of Secrets - Dungeon Masters Guild | Dungeon Masters Guild Login My Library Wishlists Cart 0 New Account (or Log In) Hide my password Get the newsletter Subscribe to get the free product of the week! One-click unsubscribe later if you don't enjoy the newsletter. Log In with Facebook Log In (I am new here) Forgot password? Remember me Error: No match for email address or password. Password forgotten? Click here. Log In with Facebook Advanced Search Author: Artist: Price: $to $ Search Quick Preview /gs_flipbook/flip.php?xml=/demo_xml/319812.xml&w=500&h=324 Full?size Preview https://watermark.dmsguild.com/pdf_previews/319812-sample.pdf Lake of Secrets From  Sebastian Y?e ADD TO WISHLIST > PDF $9.95 $9.95 Average Rating (4 ratings) Dive into a mystery in Lake of Secrets, a darker magic fantasy compatible with any setting. When the sovereign of a war-stricken kingdom goes missing, characters must brave the castle dungeons to find them. Death stalks the dungeon walls and dark deeds come to light as the characters uncover the story of a terrible sacrifice. Designed as a 3-4 hour adventure for 1-6 players of 3rd-5th level, Lake of Secrets is a fresh narrative that explores themes of false promise and isolation, offering characters a choice that will decide the fate of an entire realm. What's inside? A lavishly illustrated, full-color, 22-page PDF A tagged PDF for use with screen readers A black and white printer-friendly PDF Six full-color tokens for online play High-resolution original artwork of NPCs and magic items Two maps marked with areas of interest Two blank maps to share with players Throughout the adventure, you can find tips on how to run it for individuals and smaller groups, as well as ways to make it even more challenging. There are a variety of possible endings that appeal to characters of different alignments.  Now available for Fantasy Grounds! Money tight? We're playing it forward, no strings attached! If you can't pay, we still want you to play! Please support us with whatever you can: Click here for 50% off Click here for 90% off (if you do this, it still counts toward our bestseller medals!) Click here for 100% off (it won't count toward our bestseller medals, but that's okay!) If things start looking up, you can come back later to support our work; you can even re-purchase something you bought before, and pay more the second time. And if you don't, that's okay! Either way, please consider coming back to rate and review. Ratings and reviews really help us to know what people like and dislike about the product, and we're always open to honest feedback. For more information on the #KeepPlayingItForward initiative and for links to other participating products, visit https://keepplaying.carrd.co. Happy adventuring! Bundles containing this product: Lost Secrets of the Great Swamp [BUNDLE] $17.22  $21.38 Unique Encounters : The Woodland's Fury Swamp Encounters - Random Encounter Tables Shrine to Talos - A Wild Beyond the Witchlight adventure Lake of Secrets    More from this Title's Contributors      Customers Who Bought this Title also Purchased   Reviews (2) Discussions (1) Please log in to add or reply to comments. Rob T July 08, 2020 12:40 am UTC This is in the VTT category. Does it also come with a Fantasy Grounds module? Sebastian Y July 08, 2020 2:13 am UTC CREATOR Hi Rob - it does not come with a Fantasy Grounds module. I apologize for the inconvenience and I've removed it from the Virtual Tabletop category. Though if you use Roll20 or a similar platform, it includes tokens and maps. Sebastian Y July 08, 2020 5:41 pm UTC CREATOR As of right now, I'm working on a Fantasy Grounds module! That will go up in the next couple of weeks or so. Rob T July 08, 2020 5:59 pm UTC Cool! Sebastian Y July 28, 2020 6:00 pm UTC CREATOR The Fantasy Grounds module is now available if you’re interested :) https://www.dmsguild.com/product/321920/Lake-of-Secrets-Fantasy-Grounds?affiliate_id=1917806 Reviews Robert S. - August 17th, 2020 I ran this for a party of three level 4 characters. I was mostly very happy with it, and my players appreciated the picture resources in the pack which really set the scene well. Sekhari's end story really hit my players hard and was an excellen [...] Morgan B. - July 9th, 2020 I got to play an early playtest version of this game and it was so much fun to play. I absolutely loved the NPCs. They were very believeable and had such a lovely backstory. And the castle itself was full of fun surprises. I definitely recommend gettin [...] See All Ratings and Reviews Browse Categories Content DMs Guild Guild Adept D&D Adventurers League D&D Classics Storyline Wild Beyond the Witchlight Van Richten's Guide to Ravenloft Rime of the Frostmaiden Descent into Avernus Ghosts of Saltmarsh Waterdeep Candlekeep Mysteries Tomb of Annihilation Tales from the Yawning Portal Storm King\'s Thunder Curse of Strahd Rage of Demons Elemental Evil Tyranny of Dragons Product Type Adventures Core Rules Bundles Character Options Gear/Magic Items Resources for DMG Creators RPG Media Tabletop Essentials Board/Miniature Games Gift Certificates Theme Aquatic Arctic Dungeon Planar Underdark/Subterranean Urban Wilderness Comedy Family Oriented Festive Horror Intrigue Mystery Pulp Action Solo/Single-Player Setting Nonspecific/Any Setting Ravenloft Dark Sun Theros Dragonlance Eberron Forgotten Realms Greyhawk More Settings Ravnica Plane Shift Planescape Edition Original Edition (OD&D) Basic/Expert 1st Edition 2nd Edition 3rd Edition (d20 System) 4th Edition 5th Edition Format PDF Phone PDF Print ePub Virtual Tabletop Languages English Español Français Italiano Deutsch Português Svenska Polski Other Price Pay What You Want Free $ to $  Publisher See all titles Publisher Website   Follow Your Favorites! Sign in to get custom notifications of new products!  Recent History Lake of Secrets Product Information Social Copy Link Tweet This Author(s) Sebastian Y?e Artist(s) Morgan Kay Rules Edition(s) 5th Edition Pages 22 Format Original electronic Scanned image These products were created by scanning an original printed edition. Most older books are in scanned image format because original digital layout files never existed or were no longer available from the publisher. For PDF download editions, each page has been run through Optical Character Recognition (OCR) software to attempt to decipher the printed text. The result of this OCR process is placed invisibly behind the picture of each scanned page, to allow for text searching. However, any text in a given book set on a graphical background or in handwritten fonts would most likely not be picked up by the OCR software, and is therefore not searchable. Also, a few larger books may be resampled to fit into the system, and may not have this searchable text background. For printed books, we have performed high-resolution scans of an original hardcopy of the book. We essentially digitally re-master the book. Unfortunately, the resulting quality of these books is not as high. It's the problem of making a copy of a copy. The text is fine for reading, but illustration work starts to run dark, pixellating and/or losing shades of grey. Moiré patterns may develop in photos. We mark clearly which print titles come from scanned image books so that you can make an informed purchase decision about the quality of what you will receive. Original electronic format These ebooks were created from the original electronic layout files, and therefore are fully text searchable. Also, their file size tends to be smaller than scanned image books. Most newer books are in the original electronic format. Both download and print editions of such books should be high quality. File Last Updated: July 07, 2020 This title was added to our catalog on July 07, 2020. Publisher Dungeon Masters Guild Publisher Website See all titles (26729) Need help? Customer Questions (FAQ) DMsGuild Creator Questions? Submit Suggestion Contact us Account Login/Create Account Account My Library Affiliate System Create Content for your Favorite Games Information About Us Privacy Policy Our Latest Newsletter Product Reviews New Product RSS Feed Newsletter RSS Feed English Deutsch Español Français Italiano Português Russian US $ € Can$ £ ¥ Au$ ????? (?) ?