Laurent Dubreuil adds silver medal to Canada's speed skating haul in Norway | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Laurent Dubreuil adds silver medal to Canada's speed skating haul in Norway | CBC Sports Loaded Speed Skating Laurent Dubreuil adds silver medal to Canada's speed skating haul in Norway Japanese speed skater Tatsuya Shinhama beat Laurent Dubreuil to the finish line for a second consecutive Sunday, but the Canadian still managed to reach the podium with a silver-medal performance in the men's 500-metres in Stavanger, Norway. Social Sharing Returns to podium in men's 500 metres after winning Saturday's race CBC Sports · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 10:17 AM ET | Last Updated: 1 hour ago Laurent Dubreuil of Levis, Que., clocked 34.61 seconds over 500 metres for a silver medal on Sunday in long track action in Stavanger, Norway. (Vincent Jannink/ANP/AFP via Getty Images) comments Tatsuya Shinhama is one of the few people standing in Laurent Dubreuil's way these days on the ice. The Japanese speed skater beat his Canadian opponent to the finish line for a second consecutive Sunday, this time in the men's 500-metre event in long track action in Stavanger, Norway. WATCH | Dubreuil wins 500-metre silver for 2nd straight weekend: Laurent Dubreuil wins silver medal in Men's 500m speed skating 4 hours ago 5:12Quebec's Laurent Dubreuil placed second in the men's 500-metre speed skating event during the ISU World Cup Speed Skating competition in Stavanger, Norway. 5:12 Shinhama posted a winning time of 34.578 seconds, followed by silver medallist Dubreuil in 34.610, while Artem Arefyev of Russia in 34.671. "It's really fun to win a medal again, in what is probably the best sequence in my career," Dubreuil said. "The 500 is so close each time; I won each of my medals by less than a tenth of a second so I don't have room for error. To see that I am able to put forth four very consistent races, at such a high level, is very encouraging." Shinhama (34.699) edged Dubreuil (34.734) in the distance a week ago in Poland. "Shinhama is my biggest rival and we challenge one another a lot, Dubreuil said. "To be in the last pair with him helped us both to perform at our best. Skating against the best athletes in the world motivates me and brings out my top performance." Canada's Laurent Dubreuil wins gold at World Cup speed skating event in Norway Canadian speed skaters earn 7 long track medals at season-opening World Cup On Saturday, it was Dubreuil of Lévis, Que., standing atop the podium following his victory in the first 500 competition over Arefyev. WATCH | Dubreuil speeds to gold in Stavanger on Saturday: Laurent Dubreuil captures gold in 500m long track speed skating 1 day ago 4:05Laurent Dubreuil of Levis, Que., clocked in at 34.57 to finish first in the 500-metre competition of the ISU World Cup Speed Skating from Stavanger, Norway. 4:05 Canada collected five medals over the weekend. Ivanie Blondin, Maddison Pearman and Alexa Scott finished second in women's team sprint behind Poland on Saturday while Ted-Jan Bloemen earned bronze in the men's 10,000. Isabelle Weidemann opened the event with a silver medal in the women's 5,000 on Friday.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's Laurent Dubreuil wins gold at World Cup speed skating event in Norway Canadian speed skaters earn 7 long track medals at season-opening World Cup Canada's Weidemann skates to 5,000m silver at World Cup stop in Norway THE BUZZER Winter Olympic stock watch: Canadian skaters on the rise More speed skating coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now