Lennon Stella's standout dance track, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week | CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More Lennon Stella's standout dance track, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week | CBC Music Loaded Music Lennon Stella's standout dance track, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week Fresh Canadian tracks to add to your playlist right now. Social Sharing Fresh Canadian tracks to add to your playlist right now CBC Music · CBC Music · Posted: Oct 20, 2021 7:00 AM ET | Last Updated: October 20 Canadian artist Lennon Stella co-wrote her latest single, 'Fancy,' with Simon Wilcox and Malay. (Lennon Stella/Facebook) comments Each week, CBC Music producers come together to highlight Canada's best new tracks. This week, we got hooked on new songs from: Lennon Stella. Cœur de pirate. Kaytranada featuring Tinashe. Anyma. Charlie Houston. Scroll down to find out why you need to hear them, too. What new Canadian tunes are you currently obsessed with? Share them with us on Twitter @CBCMusic. Hit play on our Songs You Need to Hear stream, filled with songs that CBC Music's producers have chosen for their playlists, and tune into CBC Music Mornings every Thursday to hear CBC Music's Jess Huddleston and Saroja Coelho reveal which of these tracks is the standout new Canadian song. 'Fancy,' Lennon Stella It's challenging for a pop/dance song to stand out among the hundreds of tracks released each week, but that's the case with Lennon Stella's "Fancy," which she co-wrote with Simon Wilcox and Malay. Produced by the latter, "Fancy" does what no dance song should do: tamper with the tempo. And yet, in the bridge, when the beat slows down and then accelerates into the final repeat of the chorus, it's destabilizing in such a good way. The song's other attributes include the captivating vocal contour of the verses and the Afro-Cuban flavour of the refrain's punchy brass chords. "I was smiling ear to ear singing 'I'm feeling that high vibration' in the vocal booth," says Stella via press release. "I hope everyone feels the high vibrations and loves the song like we do." Mission accomplished. — Robert Rowat 'Crépuscule,' Cœur de pirate Cœur de pirate recently told Le Devoir that her latest album, Impossible à aimer, was meant to be a country album. What came out instead, though, was an album dipped in disco, with multiple tracks that would have made our list of songs that added sparkle to the year. "Crépuscule" ("twilight") is the most daring of the set, kicking off with a sharp twinkle of keys and a chugging synth beat, and ending with a guitar solo and that trademark '80s fadeout. "J'adore cette chanson," she told Le Devoir, saying she adores the song. "Renaud [Bastien, collaborateur et coréalisateur] et moi, on a lâché notre fou là-dessus, mais je n'aurais jamais osé faire ça avant, ça m'aurait effrayée." ("Renaud [Bastien, collaborator and co-producer] and I, we went crazy on it, but I never would have dared do that before, it would have scared me.") Cœur de pirate pulls out all the stops for the dizzying "Crépuscule" — and now we're even more ready for what that country album could hold. — Holly Gordon 'P.O.M.M.,' Kaytranada feat. Tinashe  Montreal producer Kaytranada is a fan of dropping unreleased nuggets on his Soundcloud. Sometimes it's an alternate version of a well-loved track and other times, as is the case with "P.O.M.M.," it's a demo that never made it off his hard drive. This head-bopping, hip-swaying slow jam features airy vocals from Tinashe and drums from Alex Sowinski of the band BadBadNotGood — and Kaytra has just been sitting on it since 2017. Fortunately for us all, he has decided now is the time to unleash it. The tell-tale sign of a Kaytranada joint: that infectious kick drum comes in immediately and Tinashe just glides effortlessly over it, singing about an uncertain kind of love. The 2017 demo was created during the interim between Kaytranada's breakthrough first album, 99.9%, and his sophomore release, Bubba, and has the chopped vocal samples and idiosyncratic beat layering of the former, but with the groovy R&B sensibilities of the latter. More recently, Kaytranada and Tinashe have linked up for tracks on each other's albums: "The Worst in Me" from Bubba and "Unconditional" from Tinashe's 2021 album, 333. — Kelsey Adams  'Even the Stars,' Anyma Here's a striking song that introduces an EDM esthetic into the singer-songwriter idiom. It's from Humans, the debut EP from Anyma, an emerging artist from Wendake, Que., who wrote the EP's six songs as a response to the untimely death of her father in 2018. "Even the Stars" begins boldly as Anyma holds your attention with her singing alone for two full verses before the drums kick in. The melody is based hypnotically on a fifth, with Anyma escaping the interval to soar or dip low in her range, only to eventually return to its confines. Produced by Pierre-Olivier Couturier, the song steadily expands to include vaporous synthesizer, a driving dance beat and — following a brief instrumental interlude — a coda with a thrilling descant as Anyma sings "Even though the stars, they shine/ they make you feel alright." — RR 'Bitches in the Bathroom,' Charlie Houston Remember parties? Charlie Houston definitely does. The rising Toronto artist's latest single, "Bitches in the Bathroom," paints a familiar picture, but perhaps one that many who continue to carefully navigate through the pandemic have yet to experience, and are clamouring to live out, again. Over a steady drumbeat and a start-and-stop acoustic guitar riff, Houston expresses her lack of patience in line at this buzzing shindig: "Watchu even doing in the bathroom?/ Prolly making TikToks, woah so hard your heart stops." It's easy to accidentally take Houston's message here seriously — she has a penchant for dramatic declarations, naming her debut EP I Hate Spring — but its humour keeps this track light and buoyant. These aren't real problems after all, but rather silly annoyances that remind us of a reality we once knew and would love to return to. To feel the presence of other bodies, crowds or even just a packed bathroom? Sign us up. — Melody Lau  How a bad experience with an edible changed the course of Charlie Houston's life Related Stories Alex Porat's anti-assimilation anthem, and 6 more songs you need to hear this week Inside the mysterious world of Canadian chillhop The Canadian concert that kicked off Greenpeace Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now