Lifting mask rule and proof-of-vaccination before spring 2022 would likely spark surge, Sask. doctors warn | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Lifting mask rule and proof-of-vaccination before spring 2022 would likely spark surge, Sask. doctors warn | CBC News Loaded Saskatoon Lifting mask rule and proof-of-vaccination before spring 2022 would likely spark surge, Sask. doctors warn The caution came Thursday night during a virtual meeting of Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) physicians. It was an escalation of similar recent messaging from the province's chief medical health officer. Social Sharing Sask. gov't has signaled measures are likely to stick around until the end of 2021 Guy Quenneville · CBC News · Posted: Nov 19, 2021 10:34 AM CT | Last Updated: November 19 Saskatchewan Premier Scott Moe has indicated the restrictions will likely still in place until the end of 2021. (Guy Quenneville/CBC) comments There's a very high probability that lifting Saskatchewan's current public indoor masking and proof-of-vaccination restrictions before spring 2022 will lead the province's hospitals to be swamped with COVID-19 patients again, doctors are warning. The caution came Thursday night during a virtual meeting of Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) physicians. It was an escalation of similar recent messaging from the province's chief medical health officer. (Saskatchewan Health Authority)  Last week, Dr. Saqib Shahab said that while Saskatchewan's vital COVID-19 stats were improving, it would be a mistake to lift the province's current public health measures going into the winter season. On Tuesday, Premier Scott Moe signalled it's likely the restrictions will remain in place to the end of 2021, though an official announcement on that is yet to come. The restrictions are currently set to expire on Nov. 30. Sask. COVID restrictions likely staying through Christmas: premier COVID case numbers improving, but don't drop masking and other measures yet: Sask. top doc Moe said he had not yet met with Shahab or Health Minister Paul Merriman to discuss an extension.  By Thursday, Shahab appeared confident the measures would be extended.  "We have an indoor mask policy that will continue over December into the holidays," he said. "We know we have proof of vaccination that will continue over December into the holidays." (Saskatchewan Health Authority) In another slide shared during Thursday's town hall, doctors learned some of the extra surge beds in Battlefords and Prince Albert ICUs are being drawn down in light of declining ICU admission. On the other hand, while the number of in-province Saskatchewan ICU patients has decreased in recent weeks, the total of COVID and non-COVID ICU patients in the province as of Thursday (92) still remained well above the number of beds the health care system can staff without surging (79), to say nothing of the 11 former Saskatchewan patients who remain in Ontario ICU wards. That means Saskatchewan's ICU capacity remains in the red zone, as shown in another slide.  (Saskatchewan Health Authority)  The town hall slides are typically posted to the SHA's website on Friday morning.  Advice for the vaccinated and unvaccinated During the town hall, Dr. Johnmark Opondo, a medical health officer with the SHA, laid out a series of guidelines he recommended people follow in the weeks to come.  Overall, people should reduce the number of people they come into contact with and their opportunities for exposure to COVID-19, as well as wear a mask indoors when not eating or drinking regardless of their vaccination status.  Vaccinated people should only meet with members from one other household. Unvaccinated people should only meet with people outdoors. Vaccinated elderly and immunocompromised people, including those with diabetes and obesity, should meet indoors only with other vaccinated people and always wear a mask indoors no matter what. Click here or see below for Thursday's full set of town hall slides. Mobile users: View the document (PDF KB) (Text KB)CBC is not responsible for 3rd party content    ABOUT THE AUTHOR Guy Quenneville Reporter at CBC Saskatoon Story tips? guy.quenneville@cbc.ca Follow Guy on Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sask. COVID restrictions likely staying through Christmas: premier COVID case numbers improving, but don't drop masking and other measures yet: Sask. top doc Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now