Londoner organizes free shopping event for those in need | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society Londoner organizes free shopping event for those in need Kay Habib noticed a need while working with refugee women Kay Habib stands among the many boxes of donations. Photo: (Submitted by Kay Habib) RCI Posted: November 15, 2021 9:03 PM A London, Ont., woman has organized a free shopping event for those in need of clothing and other necessities, hoping to spread kindness in the community.  Among the women I work with on a daily basis, there is a big need for clothing and other items, said Kay Habib, the interior designer who is the CEO of Skilled Accents, a social enterprise that employs marginalized women to create home decor products from recycled fabric.   There is also a hesitancy to ask for donations or take donations that are given in a plastic bag. So, I thought, 'who can I make this experience of accepting donations a pleasant one for people in need?'  The concept of London Let's Be Kind was born — a shop, of sorts, but where there's no money exchanged.  How a social enterprise is employing refugee women ?— and keeping waste out of landfill (new window) I want it to be a boost, and experience that they otherwise wouldn't be able to have, Habib said.  The project was delayed because of COVID, but it will finally happen on Nov. 21 from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. at 1737 Dundas Street East, in the parking lot of Avis car rental.  This is the first event but my vision is to have it on at least an annual basis, Habib said.  Clothing donations for men, women and children are being accepted.  This is a time where people are changing out their wardrobe for the season, and instead of throwing out some nicer things, I'd love for them to donate so they can go for a good cause.  From sleeping in a tent to a home and a job, this Londoner is thriving (new window) Donations are being accepted in the Skilled Accents showroom on Woodcock Street near the intersection of Hyde Park and Fanshawe Park Road. Volunteers can also drive to pick up donations, Habib said.  We have a lot of donations, but we really want to get the word out that this is happening, people don't have to register, they just have to show up and take all these great items, she said.  Habib has also been contacting social agencies and organizations that work with marginalized individuals to spread the word about the event.  Kate Dubinski (new window) · CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021