Mammoth cleanup to begin in wake of devastating B.C. floods | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Mammoth cleanup to begin in wake of devastating B.C. floods | CBC News Loaded British Columbia·Updated Mammoth cleanup to begin in wake of devastating B.C. floods British Columbia has begun the mammoth task of assessing damage to its transportation networks, infrastructure and thousands of properties along the southern part of the province in the wake of devastating floods. The province also expects the death toll to rise. Social Sharing Provincial state of emergency declared Wednesday as military arrives to assist CBC News · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 1:00 AM PT | Last Updated: 10 minutes ago A view of Highway 1 from Abbotsford, B.C. The closures of Highway 1 in the Fraser Valley, along with the closure of other highways around the province, mean the Lower Mainland is nearly cut off from the rest of the province. (Carly Thomas/CBC) THE LATEST: Water levels are rising again in parts of Abbotsford. Members of the Canadian Armed Forces arrive to aid the province's flood recovery. Over 150 people arrived by overnight train in Vancouver after being stranded for days in Hope, B.C. The city of Hope was hosting more than 1,000 evacuees. B.C. officials said more fatalities could be confirmed in the coming days from the floods. One person has been confirmed dead and at least two people are missing. Thousands of animals have been lost. The mayor of Abbotsford, B.C. said catastrophic floods in the Sumas Prairie region were averted Wednesday after more than 300 volunteers built sandbanks around a pump station. The province says those affected by the floods are eligible for financial assistance, with a deadline to apply by Feb. 12, 2022. Some highways, including Highway 7 from Hope to Vancouver, have reopened. For a list of up-to-date flood warnings, visit the River Forecast Centre. British Columbia has begun the mammoth task of assessing damage to its transportation networks, infrastructure and thousands of properties along the southern part of the province in the wake of devastating floods. The province also expects the death toll to rise. Thousands of people remain out of their homes and thousands of farm animals and livestock were also imperilled as waters washed away homes and left farms under metres of water as the province declared a state of emergency on Wednesday. The flooding was caused by record rainfall last weekend. The state of emergency will last two weeks and could be extended. It allows the government greater control over supply chains, as access to Metro Vancouver remains constrained by damaged highways. Read more about the flood situation across southern B.C. In addition to the state of emergency, the province said Thursday that those affected by the floods will be eligible for financial assistance. Disaster Financial Assistance is available for anyone who is unable to obtain insurance to cover disaster-related losses, and applications are open until Feb. 12, 2022. A handful of Canadian Armed Forces members have arrived in the province to assist, the first of what Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said could be several hundred troops. WATCH | Abbotsford residents rally to protect vital pump station: Scramble to protect Abbotsford, B.C., pump station, rescue animals 20 hours ago 3:21Abbotsford, B.C., has one of the most urgent situations in the province, with concern a vital pump station could be overwhelmed with water and create even more catastrophic flooding. The agriculture sector is concerned about the amount of livestock that will be lost to the floodwaters. 3:21 The Canadian Joint Operations Command says nine members of the Edmonton-based 3 Canadian Division Immediate Response Unit arrived in B.C. overnight to start scoping out the scene before planning and co-ordinating ongoing relief efforts. One woman has been confirmed killed in a mudslide on Highway 99, but B.C. Premier John Horgan said he expects officials to confirm more deaths in the coming days. Thousands of animals have perished in the floods and the government says it will work to get veterinarians into farms to treat animals. Some of the animals that escaped the floods are expected to be euthanized. "It is a very difficult time for our producers," B.C. Agriculture Minister Lana Popham told a news conference, nearly in tears as she described the widespread flooding as an "agricultural disaster." Fraser River flooding, from space. Amazing movement of topsoil into the sea. Stay safe, all. <a href="https://twitter.com/NASA?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@NASA</a> <a href="https://t.co/k06r873PRa">pic.twitter.com/k06r873PRa</a>&mdash;@Cmdr_Hadfield Popham said hundreds of farms have been affected provincewide by the floodwaters, many in the Fraser Valley, about an hour's drive east of Vancouver. Satellite imagery from space shared by Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield shows the devastating extent of the flooding in the Fraser Valley and massive amounts of top soil being pushed by the river out to the Pacific. The area has been one of the hardest hit by floods, with evacuation orders still in effect for the city of Abbotsford. A man uses a jet ski to help a cow swim across a flooded field after rainstorms caused flooding and landslides in Abbotsford, B.C. Thousands of animals are said to have perished in the floods. (Jesse Winter/Reuters) Water levels drop in Fraser Valley Abbotsford, known for its rich farmland, is home to roughly half of all the dairy farms in British Columbia. Dozens of dairy and chicken farms have been overwhelmed by water in the low-lying, rural area of Sumas Prairie, the hardest-hit area east of the city's centre. The region escaped a more catastrophic flood Tuesday night after volunteers helped build sandbanks around a pumping station, according to Mayor Henry Braun. However, there were signs Thursday that the community wasn't out of danger yet. Abbotsford police tweeted that water levels were beginning to rise again on the eastern part of Sumas Prairie and pleaded with drivers to respect highway barriers as conditions could change rapidly. WATCH | Did the draining of a lake 100 years ago contribute to flooding? The 100-year-old decision that contributed to Abbotsford, B.C., flooding 20 hours ago 2:29More than 100 years ago, a lake outside what is now the Abbotsford, B.C., area was drained to create lucrative farmland. Many say that decision is a big contributor to the devastating flooding. 2:29 Residents in some areas of Abbotsford and the nearby town of Chilliwack were endangered when officials warned the Barrowtown pump station was in imminent danger of failing. The station is the only thing keeping excess water from the overflowing Fraser and Nooksack rivers from entering the flooded area. Abbotsford mayor says catastrophic flood danger averted for now, as water levels drop By Wednesday, Braun said water levels were dropping and the city might soon be able to open floodgates, relieving some of the pressure on the pumping station. Water supply was also slowly being restored to the Sumas Prairie area on Thursday after a water-main break earlier in the week. A boil water advisory is in place as the supply is restored. Chilliwack downgraded an evacuation order for the community of Yarrow and Majuba Hill to an evacuation alert Wednesday evening due to the improving situation. Some highways reopen However, provincial officials have urged residents to avoid travel unless it's essential even as some highways opened around the province. Highway 7, a key link between the Lower Mainland and the communities of Hope and Agassiz to the east, opened Thursday morning for commercial vehicles only. An aerial view of where the Trans-Canada Highway used to run through the Sumas flats in Abbotsford. (Gian Paolo Mendoza/CBC) According to the province's transportation ministry, one lane was opened westbound for these vehicles as of 10 a.m. PT and the goal is to have Highway 7 open to single-lane alternating traffic for all vehicles by end of day. Transportation and Infrastructure Minister Rob Fleming tweeted Thursday that almost all people stranded in Hope have now been able to leave town. A train carrying more than 150 people stranded there when the highways closed also arrived in Vancouver at around 2:30 a.m. PT Thursday. Most of the major highways, including the east-west Trans Canada Highway and the Coquihalla (Highway 5), remain damaged by significant washouts. First vehicles leaving <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HopeBC?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HopeBC</a> tonight. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/BCHwy7?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#BCHwy7</a> reopened for westbound travellers stranded in Hope. <br><br>Info - <a href="https://t.co/VFpN0XkW86">https://t.co/VFpN0XkW86</a> <a href="https://t.co/eAByhkKtvB">pic.twitter.com/eAByhkKtvB</a>&mdash;@TranBC "Our focus is on clearing, repairing and reopening roads to connect the Interior and the North to the Lower Mainland and Vancouver Island, to get our supply chains moving," said Fleming in a statement. WATCH | How future flood damage could be mitigated: How to prepare for and prevent future devastating floods 20 hours ago 3:00Adrienne Arsenault talks to environmental risk assessment expert Jason Thistlethwaite about how to better prepare for flooding and how to mitigate damage in the future. 3:00 READ MORE: Provincial officials are reminding British Columbians to not panic-buy or hoard, after scenes of empty grocery store shelves in Hope, Chilliwack and the Okanagan region. The City of Abbotsford is urging people not to swim or paddle in flood waters. Risks include toxicity and electrocution. A look at the numbers around the floods show an unprecedented situation in more ways than one, with rainfall records shattered across the province. The Fraser Health authority is co-ordinating flights for dialysis patients who have been cut off from hospitals. Anyone placed under evacuation order should leave the area immediately. To find an evacuation centre close to you, visit the Emergency Management B.C. website. Evacuees are encouraged to register with Emergency Support Services online, whether or not they access services at an evacuation centre. Road conditions can be checked at DriveBC. With files from Rhianna Schmunk, The Canadian Press and Bridgette Watson CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia City demolishes portion of court-protected homeless camp in Prince George Overnight closures on the Malahat cause supply chain issues COVID numbers continue to fall as B.C. records 324 new cases of COVID-19 and 7 more deaths Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now