Mangiapane keeps rolling as Flames spoil opening of Islanders' new arena | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More NHL Scores Standings Statistics Teams Players Injuries Transactions Drafts Odds More NHL Mangiapane keeps rolling as Flames spoil opening of Islanders' new arena | CBC Sports Loaded NHL Mangiapane keeps rolling as Flames spoil opening of Islanders' new arena Andrew Mangiapane scored two power-play goals to help the Calgary Flames spoil the Islanders' debut of their new home arena next to Belmont Park, beating New York 5-2 on Saturday night. Social Sharing Jacob Markstrom makes 34 saves to help Calgary extend point streak to 5 games Vin A. Cherwoo · The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 11:02 PM ET | Last Updated: November 21 Calgary's Andrew Mangiapane celebrates after scoring a second-period goal against the Islanders during the Flames' 5-2 win on Saturday at UBS Arena in Elmont, New York. (Adam Hunger/The Associated Press) comments Andrew Mangiapane scored two power-play goals to help the Calgary Flames spoil the Islanders' debut of their new home arena next to Belmont Park, beating New York 5-2 on Saturday night. Brad Richardson, Trevor Lewis and Johnny Gaudreau also scored, and Noah Hanafin had two assists to help Calgary extend its point streak to five games (3-0-2). Jacob Markstrom stopped 34 shots. BOXSCORE: Flames 5, Islanders 2 "The whole game was a lot of energy in the building," Flames coach Darryl Sutter said. "We were battling, we were trying to hang in there. ... It's a process for our team in terms of learning how to play in hard, physical games." Brock Nelson scored twice for the short-handed Islanders, who were missing seven players and lost their fifth straight. It marked New York's longest losing streak in regulation in four seasons under coach Barry Trotz. "I thought we played a pretty good game," Nelson said. "We had some momentum down one — we just couldn't get one to tie it. ... I thought we did a pretty good job trying to keep it simple. We gave ourselves a chance to win." Semyon Varlamov had 26 saves to fall to 0-3-0 with a 3.31 goals-against average this season. WATCH l Mangiapane stays hot as Flames spoil Islanders' opening night at new arena: Andrew Mangiapane stays hot as Flames spoil Islanders' opening night at new arena 18 hours ago 1:08The Calgary Flames defeat the New York Islanders 5-2 in New York's first game in UBS Arena at Belmont Park in Elmont, New York. 1:08 The Islanders were without six players — captain Anders Lee, forwards Josh Bailey, Ross Johnston and Anthony Beauvillier, and defencemen Adam Pelech and Andy Greene — for the debut of UBS Arena due to COVID-19 protocols. Defenceman Ryan Pulock is out for 4-6 weeks due to a lower body injury. "A little bit of adversity for our group," Islanders forward Kyle Palmieri said. "Barry has harped on staying in the moment. I thought we came out and did just that. ... We were playing for each other and the guys who couldn't be here tonight." Nelson got his second of the night and team-high ninth of the season to pull the Islanders within a goal, 3-2, at 1:49 of the third period. Oliver Wahlstrom had the puck in the left corner and as he moved toward the net, Flames defenceman Tyler Pitlick knocked the puck away but it came to Nelson on the right side and he tapped it past Markstrom. The Islanders pulled Varlamov for an extra skater with just under 2 minutes remaining, but Lewis scored an empty-netter with 1:15 left and Gaudreau added another with 38 seconds to go. "[Markstrom] was probably our best player there," Richardson said. "He made some big saves. ... I think they had the pace in the third but we held on and kept our composure." Mangiapane's magnificent season continues with pair of goals in Flames' rout of Sabres More NHL coverage Mangiapane pushed Calgary's lead to 3-1 with his second power-play goal of the night as he deflected Hanafin's shot past Varlamov at 6:43 of the second. It was Mangiapane's 14th of the season and seventh on the power play. He scored two goals for the second straight game, and has seven in the last seven games. Richardson scored for the Flames 4:05 into the game, taking advantage of a turnover by the Islanders in their defensive zone. Matt Martin's backward pass was picked up by Richardson, who skated in and beat Varlamov on the blocker side for his second. It quieted the sellout crowd of 17,255 that had roared during pregame introductions that included Islanders greats Denis Potvin, Clark Gillies, John Tonelli, Butch Goring, Ken Morrow and Bob Nystrom. 'The atmosphere was electric' "The atmosphere was electric," Palmieri said. "They were excited for us, excited to be here. We just couldn't get the result we wanted." Mangiapane made it 2-0 with 6:32 left as he deflected Noah Hanafin's point shot in the left circle past Varlamov. With the Islanders on their fourth power play of the opening period, Nelson got them on the scoreboard with their first goal in the new building with 22.8 seconds left. He immediately raised his hands to celebrate, but officials told them to play on. When time ran out, the play was reviewed and the officials determined the puck hit the camera in the back of the net and came back out, giving Nelson his eighth of the season. WATCH | 9 best NHL duos of all-time: 9 best NHL duos of all-time...in 90 seconds 4 days ago 2:20Stopping one superstar is hard enough, stopping these duos was almost impossible. 2:20 It was New York's fifth power-play goal of the season. The Islanders were 0 for 12 on the power play over their previous six games. The Islanders and Flames met for the first time since Feb. 19, 2019 — 999 days ago. The Islanders were in Calgary when the season was paused due to the coronavirus pandemic. The game on March 12, 2020, was the first game cancelled for both teams. The NHL had a shortened, division-only schedule last season to cut down on travel. The Flames were also the opponents in the Islanders' first game at Nassau Coliseum. The Flames, who were based in Atlanta at the time, won that game 3-2 on Oct. 7, 1972, in the Islanders' inaugural game. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories BOXSCORE: Flames 5, Islanders 2 Mangiapane's magnificent season continues with pair of goals in Flames' rout of Sabres Atkinson scores 45 seconds into OT to help Flyers overcome Flames TEAM PAGE: Calgary Flames TEAM PAGE: New York Islanders More NHL coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now