Marketplace tested Perrier, LaCroix, Bubly sparkling waters to see which is most acidic | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Marketplace tested Perrier, LaCroix, Bubly sparkling waters to see which is most acidic | CBC News Loaded Canada·MARKETPLACE Marketplace tested Perrier, LaCroix, Bubly sparkling waters to see which is most acidic Marketplace tested popular sparkling water brands to see which is most acidic. Turns out, not all grapefruit-flavoured sparkling waters are created equally. Social Sharing Marketplace lab tests show some drinks are more acidic than others, and could pose a hazard to oral health Charlsie Agro, Jenny Cowley · CBC News · Posted: Nov 14, 2021 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 14 Due to its acidity, sparkling water could pose a risk to your tooth enamel. (Dave MacIntosh/CBC) comments When it comes to your teeth, sparkling water isn't always as safe as you might think it is. Some flavours could be hazardous to your oral health. To see which products pose the greatest potential risk to your smile, Marketplace tested a number of Perrier, Bubly and LaCroix sparkling water flavours available on Canadian store shelves to find out which are most acidic. WATCH | The truth about sparkling water and your teeth: Everything we eat and drink has a pH level; the lower the pH level, the higher the acidity. Food and drinks that are acidic can pose a risk to your teeth because they can weaken a tooth's enamel (the outer, protective layer of your teeth).  The Canadian Dental Association says people should be mindful of drinking some carbonated water drinks because "the higher acid levels significantly increase the risk of damage to tooth enamel and can increase the risk of erosion of the enamel and tooth decay."  Unlike regular water from your tap, which has a neutral pH of between six and seven, some flavoured and sparkling waters can be acidic.  "When we have a pH below five, this can be a danger," said Dr. Walter Siqueira of the University of Saskatchewan's school of dentistry.  Previous studies have found some flavoured carbonated waters to have pH levels as low as three, just slightly better than Coca-Cola, which has been found to have a pH of just over two.  Using a pH meter and pH test strips, Siqueira and his team at the University of Saskatchewan measured the acidity of the selected drinks. All were found to have a pH of below 5.5, and some were considerably more acidic than others.  This chart shows the pH levels of drinks Marketplace tested. The lower the pH level, the more acidic a drink is. (CBC) Bubly had the most acidic products Marketplace tested. Its cherry, grapefruit and lime flavours all had pH levels below four. Interestingly, the pH levels in the grapefruit flavoured-products Marketplace tested varied significantly.  Bubly's grapefruit flavour was considerably more acidic than the other two brands tested with a pH of 3.86, compared to LaCroix's 4.71 and Perrier's 5.46.  How beverages are consumed also matters Siqueira said pH levels below four can start wearing down enamel, which is irreversible. However, the potential impact on your teeth has a lot to do with how, and how often, you consume the product.  The best way to enjoy bubbles, according to Siqueira and others, is not to sip it constantly or over a long period of time. Rather, it should be consumed with a meal, and relatively quickly, "so you provide enough time for your saliva to recover," and return to a neutral pH. Our saliva is capable of rebalancing the pH levels in our mouths, which can slow and prevent the process of enamel erosion. All products were tested at 4 C, the temperature of the average refrigerator. The lower the pH value, the more acidic a drink is. (David Abrahams/CBC) Siqueira suggests that about 20 minutes after consuming the drink is enough time for your saliva to recover, and rinsing your mouth with regular water can help move things along.  This is why Siqueira and others warn against sipping on flavoured or carbonated drinks constantly throughout the day. You simply do not give your mouth an opportunity to rebalance its pH.  When asked about the results of our test, LaCroix told Marketplace the pH levels of its drinks "vary by flavour" — and notes they're still less acidic than soft drinks and most juice drinks. Bubly and Perrier responded through a statement from the Food and Beverage Association, saying in part that there are lots of foods and beverages that are more acidic than their drinks and all of them can "be consumed safely when combined with good oral hygiene." This chart shows the common pH levels of household products. All sparkling water brands Marketplace tested had a pH level below 5.5. (David Abrahams/CBC) While the Canadian Dental Association acknowledges sparkling water is far better for your teeth than sugary drinks, it maintains regular, fluoridated water is the best beverage for your teeth.  If you do choose to consume carbonated water, some experts suggest you consider drinking it through a straw. The less contact the beverage has with your teeth, the safer it is for your smile.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories MARKETPLACE Which coffee chain drink has as much sugar as 2 cups of ice cream? Marketplace Want to know how much added sugar is in your favourite foods? Canadian companies don't have to tell you Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now