McDavid extends point streak to 17 games to help Oilers defeat Chicago | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More NHL Scores Standings Statistics Teams Players Injuries Transactions Drafts Odds More NHL McDavid extends point streak to 17 games to help Oilers defeat Chicago | CBC Sports Loaded NHL McDavid extends point streak to 17 games to help Oilers defeat Chicago Connor McDavid and Leon Draisaitl each had a goal and an assist as the Edmonton Oilers won their second in a row, getting past Chicago 5-2 on Saturday. Tyson Barrie, Kailer Yamamoto and Ryan McLeod also scored for the Oilers (13-4-0). Social Sharing Barrie, Yamamoto, McLeod also score for Edmonton The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 1:10 AM ET | Last Updated: November 21 Oilers' Connor McDavid, left, seen playing the Winnipeg Jets on Thursday, netted his 12th goal of the season on Saturday against Chicago at Rogers Place in Edmonton. (Jason Franson/The Canadian Press) comments Connor McDavid and Leon Draisaitl each had a goal and an assist as the Edmonton Oilers won their second in a row, getting past Chicago 5-2 on Saturday. Tyson Barrie, Kailer Yamamoto and Ryan McLeod also scored for the Oilers (13-4-0), which improved to 8-1-0 at home. BOXSCORE: Oilers 5, Chicago 2 Alex DeBrincat had a pair of goals for Chicago (5-10-2), which saw a four-game winning streak halted. The Oilers struck first midway through the opening period. The rebound of Evan Bouchard's point shot came out to McDavid, who netted his 12th of the season before Chicago goaltender Kevin Lankinen could get across. The goal extended McDavid's point streak to 17 games. Edmonton's lethal power play cashed in on a 5-on-3 just over a minute later as Barrie unleashed a shot from the high slot. The Oilers made it 3-0 with a short-handed tally with under five minutes to play as Seth Jones' errant drop pass was picked off by Yamamoto, who beat Lankinen high to the glove side. WATCH l Draisaitl scores again in Oilers' win over Chicago: Draisaitl scores again in Oilers' win over Chicago 15 hours ago 0:51Leon Draisaitl scored his league-leading 18th goal of the season in Edmonton's 5-2 win over Chicago. 0:51 Edmonton kept it coming as McLeod scored his second career NHL goal with 1:28 left, showing deft hands to score on the backhand. Picking up an assist on the play was Philip Broberg, who was making his NHL debut. The 20-year-old was the eighth overall selection in the 2019 NHL Entry Draft. Chicago managed to get one back with just 20 seconds left in the first period as DeBrincat tipped a shot just under the crossbar behind Oilers goalie Stuart Skinner, who finished with 28 saves. WATCH | 9 best NHL duos of all-time: 9 best NHL duos of all-time...in 90 seconds 4 days ago 2:20Stopping one superstar is hard enough, stopping these duos was almost impossible. 2:20 After a scoreless second, Chicago made it 4-2 nine minutes into the third as DeBrincat scored his second of the game and 11th of the season on a two-on-one shortly after a penalty expired. Edmonton put the game away with 3:32 left as Draisaitl scored his league-leading 18th goal on a short-handed breakaway — Edmonton's second shorty of the contest. Chicago have a quick turnaround as they head to Vancouver to face the Canucks on Sunday. The Oilers begin a three-game road trip in Dallas on Tuesday. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories BOXSCORE: Oilers 5, Chicago 2 McDavid provides more magic to propel Oilers past Jets in shootout Jets wrap 7-game homestand with offensive outburst to down West-leading Oilers TEAM PAGE: Chicago TEAM PAGE: Edmonton Oilers More NHL coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now