Meet the law clerk and warehouse manager crafting hand pies in Thunder Bay | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Meet the law clerk and warehouse manager crafting hand pies in Thunder Bay | CBC News Loaded Thunder Bay·Northern Nosh Meet the law clerk and warehouse manager crafting hand pies in Thunder Bay 'We were basically, I think, enthusiastic amateurs,' said Pie.ology co-owner Malcolm Hope of when they took over the business in 2018. Social Sharing Pie.ology sells hand pies on May Street and at the Thunder Bay Country Market Jonathan Pinto · CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 7:00 AM ET | Last Updated: 9 hours ago Amanda and Malcolm Hope own Pie.ology in Thunder Bay. (Supplied by Pie.ology) comments "We were basically, I think, enthusiastic amateurs." That's how Malcolm Hope describes the situation when he and his wife, Amanda took over Pie.ology in 2018. The bakery, which specializes in single-serving hand pies, was founded a few years earlier, and when the Hopes found out the business was for sale, they decided to transition from customers to owners. A Pie.ology hand pie. (Supplied by Pie.ology) I chatted with the Hopes about their journey from amateurs to pie professionals for this week's edition of Northern Nosh. Tap on the player to hear our conversation. Up North6:24Northern Nosh: Pie.ologyJonathan spoke with Amanda and Malcolm Hope, owners of Pie.ology, a Thunder Bay business specializing in hand pies. 6:24 You can purchase Pie.ology's hand pies at Thunder Bay Country Market on Wednesday and Saturdays, or from their shop at 119 May St. S. on Fridays.     Northern Nosh is a weekly feature on Up North, CBC Radio One's regional afternoon show for northern Ontario. If you know a food producer you think would make a great story, get in touch!  Send an email to upnorth@cbc.ca, message us on Facebook or Twitter — or call 1-844-85NORTH.   ABOUT THE AUTHOR Jonathan Pinto Host Jonathan Pinto is the host of Up North, CBC Radio One's regional afternoon show for Northern Ontario and is based in Sudbury. He was formerly a reporter/editor and an associate producer at CBC Windsor. Email jonathan.pinto@cbc.ca. Follow Jonathan on Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Northern Nosh Learn how a trip to Vietnam inspired this family to make cheese in Kapuskasing Northern Nosh Thunder Bay Public Library offers new to way to spice up your life Northern Nosh Meet the woman teaching people to harvest wild rice on Whitefish Lake External Links Pie.ology Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now