Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion Nearly 600 people evacuated their homes in Abbotsford, BC. Photo: Radio-Canada / Ben Nelms RCI Posted: November 19, 2021 6:15 PM Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has pledged to help British Columbia recover from catastrophic flooding and mudslides that destroyed critical infrastructure, highways, and farmland this week — and forced thousands to flee their homes. Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? More than 100 Canadian Armed Forces personnel have landed in Abbotsford, B.C. to help with emergency operations (new window) in the flood-ravaged Fraser Valley area. They will help construct a flood levee in the city on Friday. B.C. Public Safety Minister Mike Farnworth said the province would consider implementing travel restrictions (new window) under its state of emergency on Friday. Agriculture Minister Lana Popham said the province is receiving aid from other jurisdictions to help farmers and ranchers in the Fraser Valley. Abbotsford Mayor Henry Braun says urgent dike repairs are needed to avert catastrophic flooding in the city, and the total cost of rebuilding in the city could exceed $1 billion (new window). Highway 7 from Vancouver to Hope, B.C. was opened to essential travel, with 1,000 people stranded in Hope already making their way home on Thursday. As of Thursday evening, 17,000 people remained away from their homes due to the floods and landslides. For a list of up-to-date flood warnings, visit the River Forecast Centre (new window). Trudeau said 120 members of the Canadian Armed Forces have been dispatched to Abbotsford, B.C., one of the worst hit areas east of Vancouver, and another 350 members are standing by in Edmonton. Soldiers have rescued about 300 people, he told a news conference after the North American Leaders' Summit in Washington Beginning Friday, military members will help construct a 2.5 kilometre flood levee in Abbotsford, in B.C.'s Fraser Valley east of Vancouver. It's hoped the levee will stop water from spilling across the Trans Canada Highway. Ranchers and farmers in B.C.'s Fraser Valley have been particularly hard hit by floods, with the region containing half of the province's dairy farms. Many of those farms are in Abbotsford, with hundreds of farms flooded in the low-lying Sumas Prairie region east of the city. Friday school closures in the Fraser Valley include all schools in the Fraser Cascade School District and Chilliwack School District, as well as Barrowtown, Matsqui and Upper Sumas elementary schools in Abbotsford. These graphics show just how much record-breaking rain hit southern B.C. recently (new window) 'I'm going to die': B.C. man recounts terror of being caught in flood (new window) Abbotsford Mayor Henry Braun said the price tag for fixing the damaged infrastructure in the town of 120,000 could reach $1 billion. The floods were triggered by historic rainfall (new window) on the weekend. More than 20 daily rainfall records shattered across the province. By Thursday evening, more than 17,000 residents were still out of their homes, and people in another 7,000 properties have been ordered to leave throughout the province. About 2,700 properties in B.C. were under evacuation alert. WATCH | Prime Minister Justin Trudeau pledges support for B.C.: Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? Meanwhile, reconstruction and cleanup efforts have begun across the province. At a media conference Thursday afternoon, Public Safety Minister Mike Farnworth said construction companies and workers were eager to get started. Farnworth said it was too early to assess the monetary impact of the devastating floods, but the province has asked Ottawa for help, and is prepared to bear the fiscal costs involved. Other jurisdictions to help B.C.'s animals At the media conference, Agriculture Minister Lana Popham said other provinces and Washington state have offered to send resources to help the province's farm animals. Many animals were trapped in barns without clean food or water, and owners were ordered to evacuate without their animals in tow. Popham had said earlier in the week that thousands of animals (new window) had perished in the floods. On Thursday, she said the province was using helicopters to drop water and aid isolated farmers "Some feed at the Port of Vancouver that was destined to go to China will be re-routed to the Valley," she said. With rain in the forecast for the Fraser Valley next week, Braun says dike repairs are urgent to protect Abbotsford from further flooding. "There's predicted 80 to 100 millimetres of rain coming next week beginning Tuesday,'' he told a news conference on Thursday. "That's what I'm concerned about if we don't fix those breaches.'' The Nooksack River in Washington state has forced the flood level up another 15 centimetres, Braun said, though a pump station is pushing out 2.2 million litres a minute. "We are still not pumping anywhere near the amount of water out of the system that is coming into the prairie across the border," said Braun. Read more about the flood situation across southern B.C. (new window) Highways reopen as province mulls travel restrictions More than 1,000 people who were stranded in the community of Hope, B.C. east of Vancouver have been reunited with their families after an overnight train on Wednesday night  (new window)and the opening of Highway 7 to essential traffic. Part of Highway 1 on Vancouver Island, known as the Malahat, was also reopened ahead of time. B.C. Transportation Minister Rob Fleming also said limited travel might soon be possible on Highway 99, where one person lost their life (new window) in a mudslide. RCMP said four other people were reported missing along the highway. Urgent dike repairs needed to prevent more flooding in Abbotsford, says mayor (new window) Farnworth said on Thursday the province would be using its powers under the state of emergency (new window) to restrict travel on the highways undergoing repairs to commercial vehicles and essential traffic. He said a "traffic plan" would be put in place, with more details to come on Friday. CBC New Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational   RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre  RCMP was ordered to stop selling surplus vehicles after a gunman used a retired cruiser in violent rampage 2 days agoSociety RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021