Mohawk woman fights cancer, strikes balance between western and Indigenous medicine | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Mohawk woman fights cancer, strikes balance between western and Indigenous medicine | CBC News Loaded Indigenous·Video Mohawk woman fights cancer, strikes balance between western and Indigenous medicine When Roxann Whitebean was diagnosed with advanced breast cancer at age 30, one of her biggest fears going into chemotherapy was losing her hair. It wasn't an issue of vanity, but because hair holds cultural significance in her Mohawk culture. Social Sharing Filmmaker Roxann Whitebean turns camera on herself, documents her recovery Stephanie Cram · CBC News · Posted: Apr 29, 2016 6:49 PM ET | Last Updated: April 29, 2016 Thunder Blanket – Episode 1 6 years ago 15:02Roxann, a young Mohawk mother and independent filmmaker, finds her career grinding to a halt when she is diagnosed with breast cancer a mere three days after shooting her first short film. 15:02 When Roxann Whitebean was diagnosed with advanced breast cancer at age 30, one of her biggest fears going into chemotherapy was losing her hair. It wasn't an issue of vanity, but because hair holds cultural significance in her Mohawk culture. "Hair is a symbol of strength and honour, and it's our style of choice to have it very long," said Whitebean, a filmmaker and mother of four from Kahnawake, Que. "It symbolizes someone who's whole." Cape Breton artist with breast cancer uses face paint to express pain First Nations people at greater risk of developing cancer: report "I grew up as a traditional woman within my community … and I always felt that if I were to ever get sick, that I would just undergo traditional medicine and not western," said Whitebean. Instead, Whitebean choose to strike a balance between western and traditional medicine. "When I got diagnosed the cancer was so advanced... I decided that I was going to try the chemotherapy, and it was basically out of fear." Whitebean's diagnosis came three days after wrapping up her first short film, Legend of the Storm. She decided to turn the camera on herself, becoming the subject of Thunder Blanket — a five-part documentary about her battle against the disease. "I got diagnosed, and within two weeks we were already rolling," said Whitebean. "I wasn't used to being in front of the camera ... I was really emotional because everything was so new to me still, but I had a hard time getting out of my head." Balancing two worlds  Bill Constant, from Opaskwayak Cree Nation, became her traditional Indigenous healer. Whitebean said he encouraged her decision to combine the two approaches and to make sure her other doctors knew. "If we're able to work together with that doctor, I think that the person's chance of recovery would be much greater.", said Constant. "When we were talking [Constant] said pray for a western doctor that'll take care of you, because some of them are very gifted healers and they work for their gods too," said Whitebean. The western treatment that Whitebean received included chemotherapy, radiation and a double mastectomy.  Whitebean and Constant developed a plan, which included an intense healing sweat before Whitebean started chemotherapy. She stayed in contact with Constant through her chemotherapy, but the real traditional healing began once it ended. Thunder Blanket – Roxann Visits Medicine Man Bill Constant 6 years ago 6:17Roxann travels to Cree country for a Traditional indigenous healing ceremony under the direction of medicine man Bill Constant. 6:17  And when the western treatment was done, she would "detox" and regain her strength with traditional remedies. "What we did for Roxann was we had four sweats in four days. Before she went in we made medicine for her to drink, and this medicine is to go into this area where she's sick, to clean her out from inside," said Constant. "We use that intense heat to go into the place where you're sick. In fact western medicine has recently said that cancer doesn't survive in extreme heat." Importance of sharing story When Whitebean decided to film her fight against cancer, it was driven by a desire to educate other women about trusting their own instincts when it comes to health. Roxann Whitebean says when going through chemotherapy her scalp hurt, so she decided to shave her hair off. (Daynah Danger)"The reason we started filming this was for years I went to the doctors and said I think there's a problem, I found a lump in my breast, and they would tell me that I was too young," said Whitebean, who was only 30 years old when she was diagnosed. "And I think doctors, general practitioners, need to discuss this more with oncologists, because when I did tell my oncologist this he said, there's no such thing as being too young for breast cancer." Thunder Blanket is a 5-part series that explores a Roxann Whitebean's battle against breast cancer while being a traditionalist searching for a cure in a modern world.  Watch Thunder Blanket on the CBC Short Docs website.   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories High lung, cervical cancer rates in indigenous people point to need for prevention Unreserved When Indigenous healing practices meet modern medicine Why Indigenous boys and men choose to wear braids Northern Ontario First Nation focus of Health Canada cancer study Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now