Murray Brewster - Defence and security | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Murray Brewster - Defence and security | CBC Loaded Murray Brewster Defence and security Murray Brewster is senior defence writer for CBC News, based in Ottawa. He has covered the Canadian military and foreign policy from Parliament Hill for over a decade. Among other assignments, he spent a total of 15 months on the ground covering the Afghan war for The Canadian Press. Prior to that, he covered defence issues and politics for CP in Nova Scotia for 11 years and was bureau chief for Standard Broadcast News in Ottawa. Follow @Murray_Brewster on Twitter More from Murray Brewster Latest from Murray Brewster New U.S. admiral warns of China threat and urges allies to work and train more closely The United States and its allies should move more urgently in the face of rapidly evolving Chinese military tactics, the new U.S. commander of the Indo-Pacific region has warned the Halifax International Security Forum. Politics |6 hours ago Exclusive Canada urged to put more weight behind Ukraine NATO bid as Russian buildup continues The former president of Ukraine is urging Canada to get more actively behind his country’s NATO membership bid. Petro Poroshenko sat down with CBC News senior defence correspondent Murray Brewster and said buildup of Russian troops on the Ukraine border lends fresh urgency to the membership bid. Politics |November 20 No injuries reported after Canadian frigate catches fire at sea A Canadian frigate serving as the flagship for one of NATO's standing naval groups has been damaged by fire off the coast of Norway. Politics |November 18 Government, military set to formally apologize to sexual misconduct victims The country's acting top military commander and the deputy minister of National Defence are expected to deliver a formal apology to survivors of sexual misconduct in the armed forces as early as this week, CBC News has learned. Politics |November 16 Saving Sgt. Hurwitz: Historians work to rescue a Canadian war hero from obscurity For Sgt. Samuel Moses "Moe" Hurwitz — one of the most decorated Jewish-Canadian soldiers of the Second World War — the fight was something deeply personal. Politics |November 11 Exclusive Military police investigate dozens of complaints of racism in the Canadian Army Military police and civilian law enforcement have investigated up to 70 cases of alleged hateful conduct and racist attitudes within the Canadian Army. The reviews have resulted in the release of as 20 soldiers and come after the country's top military commander ordered troops last fall to report racism when they witnessed it. Politics |November 3 Former top military commander's trial on obstruction of justice set for spring of 2023 Jonathan Vance, the country’s former top military commander, will have to wait another a year and a half to go on trial for obstruction of justice. Politics |October 29 Analysis Women take charge of key portfolios in Justin Trudeau's new cabinet For the first time in Canada's history, women will lead each of the departments of Finance, Defence and Foreign Affairs. Politics |October 27 Eyre blames sexual misconduct crisis, pandemic for shrinking military It could take up to seven years for the Canadian military's recruitment efforts to recover from the fallout of both the sexual misconduct crisis and the pandemic, says the country’s acting chief of the defence staff. Politics |October 26 Former military interpreters stranded in Afghanistan call on Trudeau for help Hundreds of former interpreters for the Canadian military, still stranded in Afghanistan, have issued their own desperate pleas directly to the Liberal government. Politics |October 25Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now