N.L. officials welcome Afghan newcomers as work to reunite families continues | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Politics N.L. officials welcome Afghan newcomers as work to reunite families continues More than 150 people have come to province so far Premier Andrew Furey speaks with a man who recently arrived in Newfoundland and Labrador from Afghanistan with his family. Photo: (Danny Arsenault/CBC) RCI Posted: November 17, 2021 9:07 PM For more than 150 Afghan people who have recently arrived in Newfoundland and Labrador, the move is a chance to start a new life in safety. Newcomers were able to chat, play and collect donated household items Tuesday during an event at the Association of New Canadians' donation centre in St. John's. Donations included clothes and toys for the refugees to have as they prepare to move into permanent housing. The federal government has brought 157 Afghan refugees to Newfoundland and Labrador so far, who left the country after a takeover by the Taliban. Provincial Immigration Minister Gerry Byrne said he expects more citizens to land in the province but for now the government is focused on helping those who have already arrived resettle. N.L. welcomes 116 Afghan refugees in single flight to St. John's (new window) Donations pour in for newly arrived Afghan refugees in St. John's (new window) For one newcomer, who recently arrived with her parents, siblings and grandmother, the long journey to Newfoundland is a fresh start for her family. I felt peace, and I thought of peace when I landed here, the woman said through an interpreter. When the Taliban came and took over, nobody felt safe over there. Nobody felt that they were at peace over there. Everybody was constantly in a state of fear. So when I came here, I was very grateful and happy that we are finally safe here. CBC News is not identifying people interviewed in this story due to security concerns. 'Some of our families are left behind' But while everyone was grateful to be out of Afghanistan and safe in a new home country, conversations also centred on the people who weren't there. Right now, some of our families are left behind in Afghanistan, one newcomer told Byrne through an interpreter. We're trying, and it was our best effort to all come together, but we couldn't make it. The man explained he has remained in contact with family still in Afghanistan and fears for their safety. He said the Taliban come to his home in search of him every week, and he fears they will take a member of his family. Afghan interpreter must be rescued from Taliban, says retired N.L. military officer (new window) They're even worse than animals. If they get a hold of someone, they will behead them. They will kill them, he said. I am very thankful to be safe here, and for you to have given us this place to stay at and be safe. But inside, spiritually, mentally, we are not totally and completely at peace. WATCH: A man arriving from Afghanistan speaks to Minister Gerry Byrne through an interpreter: Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? For more than 150 Afghan people who have recently arrived in Newfoundland and Labrador, the move is a chance to start a new life in safety. Newcomers were able to chat, play and collect donated household items Tuesday during an event at the Association of New Canadians' donation centre in St. John's. Donations included clothes and toys for the refugees to have as they prepare to move into permanent housing. The federal government has brought 157 Afghan refugees to Newfoundland and Labrador so far, who left the country after a takeover by the Taliban. Provincial Immigration Minister Gerry Byrne said he expects more citizens to land in the province but for now the government is focused on helping those who have already arrived resettle. N.L. welcomes 116 Afghan refugees in single flight to St. John's (new window) Donations pour in for newly arrived Afghan refugees in St. John's (new window) For one newcomer, who recently arrived with her parents, siblings and grandmother, the long journey to Newfoundland is a fresh start for her family. I felt peace, and I thought of peace when I landed here, the woman said through an interpreter. When the Taliban came and took over, nobody felt safe over there. Nobody felt that they were at peace over there. Everybody was constantly in a state of fear. So when I came here, I was very grateful and happy that we are finally safe here. CBC News is not identifying people interviewed in this story due to security concerns. 'Some of our families are left behind' But while everyone was grateful to be out of Afghanistan and safe in a new home country, conversations also centred on the people who weren't there. Right now, some of our families are left behind in Afghanistan, one newcomer told Byrne through an interpreter. We're trying, and it was our best effort to all come together, but we couldn't make it. The man explained he has remained in contact with family still in Afghanistan and fears for their safety. He said the Taliban come to his home in search of him every week, and he fears they will take a member of his family. Afghan interpreter must be rescued from Taliban, says retired N.L. military officer (new window) They're even worse than animals. If they get a hold of someone, they will behead them. They will kill them, he said. I am very thankful to be safe here, and for you to have given us this place to stay at and be safe. But inside, spiritually, mentally, we are not totally and completely at peace. WATCH: A man arriving from Afghanistan speaks to Minister Gerry Byrne through an interpreter: Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? The man called on Byrne and the federal and provincial government to work quicker to bring more Afghans seeking asylum into Canada. Byrne told the man his story was very difficult to listen to, but very important that everyone listens. He added that talks are continuing between the provincial and federal governments and the United Nations to bring more people from Afghanistan into the country and that reuniting families is a top priority. We will do our best to work with you, and to work with Canada, to make sure that all those who are in danger … have an opportunity to be repatriated, including family members such as yours, Bryne said. The pair ended the conversation with a hug and a blessing of shared respect. Premier Andrew Furey also appeared at the event, saying he felt humbled to be part of the group welcoming people to Canada from Afghanistan. There's incredible enthusiasm and optimism toward this being their new home, he said. Talking with a couple of gentlemen and some of the children, everybody appreciates the generosity but equally the opportunity that Canada can afford them and their families. Antwone Aslan, the Association for New Canadians' settlement services co-ordinator, said he's seen the excitement to people coming to the province. Morale has been really positive, and they just can't wait to get on with their lives and start their lives here in St. John's and be part of the community as soon as possible, he said. CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021