N.L. patient, employee data stolen in health-care cyberattack | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More N.L. patient, employee data stolen in health-care cyberattack | CBC News Loaded Nfld. & Labrador N.L. patient, employee data stolen in health-care cyberattack Hackers stole personal information connected to both patients and employees in the Eastern Health and Labrador-Grenfell Health regions of Newfoundland and Labrador's health-care system as part of a recent cyberattack, according to officials. Social Sharing Hackers were able to access the information through the province's Meditech system Alex Kennedy · CBC News · Posted: Nov 09, 2021 1:37 PM NT | Last Updated: November 10 Newfoundland and Labrador Premier Andrew Furey shared details of a privacy breach within the province's healthcare system, which caused patient and employee medical data to be stolen. (Patrick Butler/CBC) comments Hackers stole personal information connected to both patients and employees in the Eastern Health and Labrador-Grenfell Health regions of Newfoundland and Labrador's health-care system as part of a recent cyberattack, according to officials. The information was accessed through the province's Meditech data repository, which includes a patient information database as well as core communication tools, such as email. According to government officials, the breach includes basic information collected when a patient registers for an appointment — including names, birthdays, addresses, email addresses and phone numbers, medical care plan (MCP) numbers, the name of the person's family doctor, marital status and in- and out-patient times. There is no indication that vendor information was included in the breach, according to Health Minister John Haggie. The attackers were also able to access information connected to Eastern Health employees who worked within about the last 14 years and Labrador-Grenfell Health employees from about the last nine years. WATCH | Premier Andrew Furey speaks with the CBC's Katie Simpson about the data breach on Power & Politics: N.L. officials confirm patient and employee data stolen in cyberattack but say there's no evidence of misuse 12 days ago 7:45Newfoundland and Labrador Premier Andrew Furey joins Power & Politics to discuss his government's response to a cyberattack on the province's health system 7:45 That breached information includes names, addresses, contact information and social insurance numbers. Haggie said there is no indication that banking information was included in the breach. Eastern Health CEO David Diamond said anyone who has been an Eastern Health employee over the last 14 years should assume their data has been stolen. The province's health authorities are  "devastated" the breach occurred, he said. Eastern Health CEO David Diamond said it's safe for all patients of Eastern Health within the past 14 years to assume their data has been stolen. (Government of Newfoundland and Labrador) Diamond sympathizes with those who feel their information may now be in nefarious hands. "The personal health information that is available in the registration conversation is limited, but it is there," he said. Diamond said the province's health authorities do have insurance to cover losses brought on by ransomware or a cyberattack, but added there are no estimates yet as to what the attack could cost the province. Obtained data was unencrypted, officials say According to officials from the Newfoundland and Labrador Centre for Health Information, attackers obtained the data in an unencrypted state, meaning it was not locked behind a safety measure. It's unclear how many people are affected; systems storing the information have not yet been restored. Officials say they believe no information was accessed in the Western Health region of the province, while an investigation in the Central Health region continues. The government says the provincial Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner has been contacted on the matter, along with the Canadian Centre for Cybersecurity and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. "This is not someone else's problem. This is everyone's problem. An attack on one is an attack on all," said Premier Andrew Furey during the news conference held Tuesday afternoon. Watch the full briefing here: Furey said a public notification process is now underway, which will include what steps people can take to protect their information — like monitoring banking and financial information for unusual activity. Material will be available online for the public to view by 6 p.m. NT, with a toll-free phone system launching Wednesday morning. This is the largest cyberattack in Newfoundland and Labrador's history for sure, and certainly among the largest that we've heard about in Canada.- Michael Harvey In an interview with CBC News following the announcement, Newfoundland and Labrador Information and Privacy Commissioner Michael Harvey said it's unclear how much data is in the hands of hackers — calling the attack an interest of national security. "This is the largest cyberattack in Newfoundland and Labrador's history for sure, and certainly among the largest that we've heard about in Canada," Harvey said. He said his biggest concern would be preventing identity theft using the data, something that can be addressed through the use of credit monitoring services. The province says it's ready to help with that. "Anyone could use this information, any information they have, to steal someone's identity. They could be on the other side of the country, any parts of the world," said Justice Minister John Hogan. "Just by checking your credit report, you will see if that information is being used. You'll be aware of that, you can call the banks, you can call the police, you can have it dealt with before anything of severe consequences happens." Newfoundland and Labrador Information and Privacy Commissioner Michael Harvey, left, and Justice Minister John Hogan share concerns over the potential of identify theft following the attack. (CBC/Government of Newfoundland and Labrador) Harvey also recommended proper "Internet hygiene," frequently changing passwords where applicable and avoiding phishing emails that could make a person a further target of an attack. Haggie said the province is trying to be as open as possible about the attack but that officials are limited in how much they can say at this time. "We're trying to be as open and transparent as possible," he said. "But we also need to be cautious about the third party watching. Literally, watching as we're doing [this] right now." Possible cyberattack could impact N.L. health care for weeks, months: experts N.L. health-care cyberattack is worst in Canadian history, says cybersecurity expert Harvey said the attack is a great concern, but is confident government is taking the appropriate steps to try to contain any further breach. The update comes 10 days after the cyberattack shut down health-care services across the province. Emergency services have continued throughout, and chemotherapy and radiation treatments have resumed across the province. Laboratory services next priority as N.L. rebuilds from cyberattack, says Haggie The government has not acknowledged whether the attack was ransomware. Ransomware attacks involve malicious software that accesses and prevents the use of critical computer files followed by a demand for payment to restore those files.  Meanwhile, the province's COVID-19 travel form and self assessment tool have been restored and can now be accessed online. Healthcare workers are also working to rebook appointments for patients impacted by the attack, with a specific emphasis on cancer patients. Read more from CBC Newfoundland and Labrador ABOUT THE AUTHOR Alex Kennedy Alex Kennedy works for CBC Newfoundland and Labrador in St. John's. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now