News from the Czech Republic | Radio Prague International Skip to main content Czech Radio Ways to listen Newsletter QSL Who is who Contact Search Search Radio Prague - EN Broadcast in English 11/21/2021 Play Broadcast Archive Ways to listen News Domestic affairs Foreign policy European Union Business Society Culture Travel History Sport Science and technology Nature Czechs abroad Foreigners and the Czech Republic Czech language CS DE EN ES FR ?? Czech Museums Radio Prague International has selected 10 Czech museums that you may not necessarily find in your guidebooks. More 09:31 Foreign policy Czech Republic among least vulnerable to Russian and Chinese influence, regional study shows Czech Republic among least vulnerable to Russian and Chinese influence, regional study shows Anniversary of the Week Nazdar! Czech greeting has fascinating history 30:29 Culture Leoš Janá?ek's opera Katya Kabanova premiered 100 years ago Business Restaurant owners report drop in customers following introduction of tougher Covid measures News Record increase in Covid cases on Saturday Crisis team to consider shortening minimal interval between primary inoculation and booster vaccine Interest in vaccination soars ahead of tightened restrictions Worsening epidemic forcing teachers to provide in-class as well as distance learning People donate 410 tons of non-perishable goods within National Food Collection Follow us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram RSS The Czech Books You Must Read Kafka, ?apek, Kundera and Havel, these are all world renowned names, but what about all the others? How well are Czech authors actually known abroad? More Domestic affairs 14:44 Twilight of the Communist Party in Czechia? The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has failed, for the first time since 1989, to get into Parliament. But is it the end for the party or a temporary setback? Business Škoda introduces new “Slavia“ sedan for Indian market In a global on-line premiere, carmaker Škoda Auto introduced its new “Slavia” sedan, intended exclusively for the Indian market, this Wednesday. Czech industry calls for government action in seven sectors to boost competitiveness The Confederation of Industry and Transport wants the next government to take action in seven sectors that it argues are key to economic growth and stability. Czechs stock up on firewood and coal for fear of rising energy prices  Although the heating season started only a few weeks ago, firewood and coal sellers around the Czech Republic are reporting increased demand for fuel.  Foreign policy 05:04 Expert: Fiala govt will be pro-Western but shift on migration unlikely The incoming Czech government headed by Petr Fiala has pledged to be more pro-Western than its predecessor. But will it really follow a Havel-like, human rights agenda? Society 03:43 Doctors defend brutally frank vaccine campaign A brutally frank campaign in the media showing people close to death and those who have succumbed to Covid has sparked controversy among media experts and the public alike. 07:17 Czechs dispel gloom of pandemic and economic woes with St. Martin’s wine On St. Martin's Day Czechs around the country sample the first young wine from the autumn harvest and enjoy a traditional feast of roast goose, dumplings and  cabbage. Anniversary of the Week 80 years since Nazis started deporting Czech Jews to Belarus The wartime story of Czech Jews is often told in connection to the Terezín  and Auschwitz, but tens of thousands were also deported to Belarus and the Baltic states. Culture 10:37 Museum in Jablonec tells story of world-renowned Bohemian crystal glass and jewelry The Museum of Glass and Jewelry in Jablonec nad Nisou traces the history of Bohemian glass making over seven centuries.   23:28 EP17: Designers Herrmann & Coufal Duo Herrmann & Coufal, who like to involve the customer in the manufacture of their products, are the most recent winners of the Czech Grand Designer of the Year award. 04:17 Havel to the Café! New bust to be unveiled on Velvet Revolution anniversary A bust of Václav Havel will be unveiled on Wednesday – the anniversary of the start of the Velvet Revolution – at Prague’s Café Slavia, one of his old haunts. History 04:28 ‘Our Germans’: Czech exhibition maps a millennium of peaceful coexistence, decades of strife A sweeping exhibition on ethnic Germans in the Czech lands in Ústí nad Labem explores relations between the two communities dating back to the Middle Ages.  03:20 Unique Celtic kettle, which may depict the stars over Brno, goes on display in Moravian capital Fragments of the co-called Malom??ice kettle, a masterpiece of Celtic art, is currently on display at the Dietrichstein Palace in Brno.  06:09 Gustáv Husák – the face of ‘Normalisation’ in Soviet-occupied Czechoslovakia Gustáv Husák, the last communist president of Czechoslovakia and living emobidment of the Normalisation era, died 30 years ago. Sport 03:37 Barbora Krej?íková and Kate?ina Siniaková win WTA Finals in women’s doubles Czech tennis duo Barbora Krej?íková and Kate?ina Siniaková have won this year’s WTA Finals doubles tournament after beating Hsieh Su-wei and Elise Mertens 6:3 and 6:4 . Nature 11:23 Czech scientist: animal migration threatened by climate changes A new study shows that many migrating animals no longer profit from travelling to the northern latitudes due to environmental changes associated with climate change. Science and technology 06:48 Czech scientists first to look inside atom, open new window into understanding quantum physics A team of Czech scientists has developed a new microscopic method that made it possible to look inside the atom for the first time ever. One-of-a-kind 1960s locomotive heads for National Technical Museum A unique locomotive created in the 1960s set off at the weekend from Plze? station for Chomutov, where it will join the collection of the National Technical Museum. Photogallery Bezd?z Castle Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International Bezd?z Castle|Photo: Št?pánka Budková, Radio Prague International < > Video Video of Škoda Museum Škoda Museum in Mladá Boleslav EP17: Designers Herrmann & Coufal Duo Herrmann & Coufal, who like to involve the customer in the manufacture of their products, are the most recent winners of the Czech Grand Designer of the Year award. Subscribe Apple iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify rss feed - other readers No Night So Dark: Part Seven Ida, Rudolf and Martin Wels are deported to the Terezín ghetto.  Nearly eighty years later, Colin Wels reads through their last correspondence. Subscribe Apple iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify rss feed - other readers Featured Czech Architecture Prize awarded for innovative reconstruction of Moravian castle Peter Sís on new documentary and Bowie collaboration that never was More Czechs believe in aliens than in God, but pandemic increased reflections on spiritual matters Events and Projects The Best of Czech classical music Prague Cafes Charles Bridge Václav Havel Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk Subscribe No Night So Dark Apple iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify rss feed - other readers Czechia in 30 minutes Apple iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify rss feed - other readers My Prague Apple iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify rss feed - other readers In Their Own Words Apple iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify rss feed - other readers Czech Next Wave Apple iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify rss feed - other readers English Service Staff Ruth Fra?ková Daniela Lazarová Brian Kenety Ian Willoughby Thomas McEnchroe Czech Links Czech Foreign Ministry Czech Ministry of Interior Czech Centres CzechTourism National Museum National Gallery Government Portal Immigration Portal of the Czech Republic About Radio Prague Ways to Listen Daily news by e-mail QSL Who is Who Radio Prague History Contact Logo RSS Cookies Personal data Terms of use Partners Radio Romania International Radio Canada International Polskie Radio SWI swissinfo.ch Follow us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Rss Radio Prague International © 1997-2021 Radio Prague International