Ottawa cellist Bryan Cheng wins 2nd prize at the Geneva International Music Competition | CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More Ottawa cellist Bryan Cheng wins 2nd prize at the Geneva International Music Competition | CBC Music Loaded Music Ottawa cellist Bryan Cheng wins 2nd prize at the Geneva International Music Competition He also won the audience prize and the student prize, bringing his winnings to $19,630. Social Sharing He also won the audience prize and the student prize, bringing his winnings to $19,630 Robert Rowat · CBC Music · Posted: Oct 28, 2021 5:13 PM ET | Last Updated: October 28 Ottawa cellist Bryan Cheng made his Carnegie Hall recital debut at the age of 14. (Harald Hoffmann) Bryan Cheng, a 24-year-old cellist from Ottawa, has won second prize at the Geneva International Music Competition. The announcement came on Oct. 28 following the competition's final round which saw three cellists performing with l'Orchestre de la Suisse Romande under Georg Fritzsch. Cheng, who won the OSM Competition in 2019 and the Bader and Overton Canadian Cello Competition in 2020, played Edward Elgar's Cello Concerto in E Minor in the final. You can watch his performance beginning at 2:00:00 in the video below. Cheng's second prize comes with a cash award of $16,250. He also won the student prize ($1,350) and the audience prize ($2,030), bringing his total earnings to $19,630. First prize went to Japanese cellist Michiaki Ueno, 25; Jaemin Han, 15, from South Korea won third prize. They were among 37 cellists aged 15 to 30 years old and representing 19 countries who were selected to take part in this 75th edition of the Geneva International Music Competition. From that preliminary round, eight were selected to advance to the semifinal, and three to the final, by a jury comprising Ivan Monighetti, Thomas Demenga, Michaela Fuka?ová, Ophélie Gaillard, Clive Greensmith, Qin Li-Wei and Shauna Rolston. In addition to the cash award, Cheng's second prize includes international concert engagements. Cheng is half of Cheng²Duo, an ensemble he formed with his sister, pianist Silvie Cheng, who accompanied Bryan during some of his semifinal recital, which you can watch below. Related Stories How Cheng² Duo rediscovered their purpose as classical musicians during the pandemic Canada's Bruce Xiaoyu Liu has won 1st prize at the 18th International Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now