P.J. Akeeagok has been selected as next premier of Nunavut, Canada – Eye on the Arctic Sunday, November 21, 2021 Eye on the Arctic Issues affecting circumpolar nations Countries Canada Denmark/Greenland Finland Iceland Norway Russia Sweden USA Categories Environment Politics Society Science Business Art and Culture Longforms Video Reports Regard sur l’Arctique * Featured * Canada Countries Featured • Zone 3 General Politics Politics (Canada)  P.J. Akeeagok has been selected as next premier of Nunavut, Canada Jane George, CBC News Posted: Thursday, November 18, 2021 at 15:36 0 Comments P.J. Akeeagok, 37, was selected from among his peers to serve as Nunavut sixth premier. (Matisse Harvey/Radio-Canada) P.J. Akeeagok was chosen as Nunavut’s next premier during the Nunavut Leadership Forum held in the territory’s Legislative Assembly Wednesday. Akeeagok won the position in a vote by his 22 peers in the assembly. He beat former premier Joe Savikataaq and long-time MLA and minister Lorne Kusugak to become the territory’s sixth premier since 1999, when Nunavut was created. “I am humbled in front of you,” Akeeagok told the MLAs after his election was announced, also thanking his family. “I look forward to the four years, and we will have a huge load. I will be turning to elders on a constant basis — and to you.” Akeeagok, 37, now becomes Canada’s youngest current premier, though not the youngest premier Nunavut has seen. That was Paul Okalik, who took the helm in 1999 at age 34. There are no parties in Nunavut’s consensus government. Instead, during a one-day forum, newly elected MLAs select the premier, Speaker and members of the executive council (cabinet) by secret ballot. Akeeagok’s election followed more than five hours of questioning by MLAs in the chamber, which was presided over by the new Speaker-elect, Gjoa Haven MLA Tony Akoak. Tony Akoak, the MLA for Gjoa Haven, was elected Speaker by his colleagues on Nov. 17, 2021. Akoak was first elected to the Nunavut Legislative Assembly in 2013 and is now serving his third term. (Matisse Harvey/Radio-Canada) Akeeagok was first elected to the Nunavut assembly in October to represent the constituency of Iqaluit-Niaqunnguu. He was nominated for premier by Cambridge Bay MLA Pamela Gross and vowed to pursue a vision of hope and change. “It’s time for a different way of government,” Akeeagok said in his pitch to MLAs, emphasizing that Nunavut is ready for new leadership. His Nunavut would be based on collaboration and Nunavummiut’s “shared passion for language, culture and religion,” he said in the assembly. Akeeagok said young people, such as those who demonstrated in Iqaluit Tuesday asking for action on suicide, are in a crisis. He promised he would seek tangible solutions. Joe Savikataaq, the MLA for Arviat South and former premier, also put his name forward but was defeated by Akeeagok. (Matisse Harvey/Radio-Canada) Akeeagok beat out Kusugak and Savikataaq after all three candidates delivered self-introductions and faced questions from peers on issues including health-care delivery, education, housing, infrastructure, food insecurity, suicide prevention, child sexual abuse and management style. Faced with the announcement this week from Nunavut Tunngavik Inc. that the organization intends to seek some form of Inuit self-government outside the public territorial government, all three candidates said they would seek closer collaboration with Inuit organizations. The three candidates agreed on most issues, such as housing. All three said the territorial government needs to work with Inuit organizations and mining companies to resolve Nunavut’s housing deficit of more than 3,000 units. There was also a consensus that Nunavut’s elders must be brought back north for care. The candidates also agreed suicide prevention should be a priority. Akeeagok said there’s an opportunity to mobilize around prevention with the kind of response put in place to deal with COVID-19. Jobs through sustainable industries Akeeagok was born and raised in Grise Fiord and graduated from Nunavut Sivuniksavut. Before running for MLA, he was president of the Qikiqtani Inuit Association for seven years. Issues he said he wants to tackle include access to affordable child care, elder care, housing and culturally relevant mental health counselling. Akeeagok wants to grow the economy and create jobs by bolstering sustainable industries. During the leadership forum, he promised more contact with Nunavut communities. Igloolik MLA Joanna Quassa casts her ballot for premier during the Nunavut Leadership Forum in Iqaluit Wednesday. (Matisse Harvey/Radio-Canada) In response to a question from Iqaluit-Sinaa MLA Janet Pitsiulaaq Brewster about mistakes the candidates might have made, Akeeagok, whose first language is Inuktitut, said he often worried about making mistakes in speaking English. Akeeagok said his government could be likened to a dog team, which co-operates. “We will start out at a trot and go faster into the future,” he said. His cabinet will consist of nine members — the premier and eight ministers, also chosen today — who will be assigned portfolios by the new premier. Sixteen MLAs were nominated and, after five ballots and 12 hours after the leadership forum started, those named to cabinet were: Quttiktuq MLA David Akeeagok. Cambridge Bay MLA Pamela Gross. South Baffin MLA David Joanasie. Rankin Inlet South MLA Lorne Kusugak. Iqaluit-Manirajak MLA Adam Arreak Lightstone. Arviat North-Whale Cove MLA John Main. Pangnirtung MLA Margaret Nakasuk. Aggu MLA Joanna Quassa. Savikataaq, formerly the environment minister, who lost his bid to for a second term as premier, did not win a cabinet bid. Neither did his former finance minister George Hickes of Iqaluit-Tasiluk. Cambridge Bay MLA Pamela Gross spoke to the MLAs before the first ballot about the loss of her nephew this week to suicide. She asked for a moment of silence and urged anyone in crisis to seek help. A one-day sitting of the sixth legislative assembly takes place on Friday before the legislature breaks until January for standing committee meetings. Its winter sitting is scheduled for February. Related stories from around the North: Canada: Canadian NDP leader vows he’ll wrest money from feds to help fix Iqaluit water woes, CBC News Finland: With cooperative spirit, Finland targets Arctic Russia, The Independent Barents Observer Norway: Norwegian army starts training with anti-tank mines near Russia border, The Independent Barents Observer Sweden: Arctic Sweden to welcome thousands of international troops for Northern Wind exercise, The Independent Barents Observer United States: Russian, U.S. foreign ministers to meet on sidelines of Arctic Council meeting, Eye on the Arctic Nunavut, P.J. Akeeagok ? With cooperative spirit, Finland targets Arctic Russia Rosneft’s new Arctic field gets name after deceased EMERCOM chief Zinichev ? Jane George, CBC News Jane George is now a reporter-editor at CBC Nunavut. Prior to August 2021, George worked at Nunatsiaq News for more than 20 years, winning numerous awards for her stories. Do you want to report an error or a typo? Click here! Leave a Reply Cancel reply Note: By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that Radio Canada International has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever. Radio Canada International does not endorse any of the views posted. Your comments will be pre-moderated and published if they meet netiquette guidelines. Netiquette » Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Current ye@r * Leave this field empty Feature The Arctic in Pictures News The Arctic in pictures  Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Also on RCI (Chinese) Also on RCI (Spanish) Also on CBC Also on Radio-Canada About Us Contact Us RCI FRANÇAIS ENGLISH ESPAÑOL ?? ??????? Follow us Facebook Twitter RCI | Facebook RCI | Twitter Resources RADIO-CANADA Conditions d’utilisation Ombudsman CBC Impact and Accountability Ombudsperson Copyright © 2021 Eye on the Arctic. All rights reserved. Theme: ColourMag by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress.