Partial lunar eclipse will be longest since the reign of Henry VI | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Partial lunar eclipse will be longest since the reign of Henry VI | CBC News Loaded Science Partial lunar eclipse will be longest since the reign of Henry VI Skygazers are in for a treat overnight between Thursday and Friday, when much of the planet will be able to see the longest partial lunar eclipse in almost 600 years. The only hitch is that for much of Canada, the peak of the eclipse will happen in the middle of the night. Social Sharing Eclipse will peak at about 4 a.m. ET, and 97% of the moon will be in Earth's shadow Jaela Bernstien · CBC News · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: 3 hours ago This photo shows the moon during the June 2019 total lunar eclipse. The eclipse taking place overnight between Thursday and Friday will be a near-total eclipse, meaning the Earth's shadow will be cast across most but not all of the moon's surface. (Ringo H.W. Chiu/The Associated Press) comments Skygazers are in for a treat overnight between Thursday and Friday, when much of the planet will be able to see the longest partial lunar eclipse in almost 600 years. The only hitch is that for much of Canada, the peak of the eclipse will take place in the middle of the night. But if the weather co-operates, it might be worth braving the cold night air for a glimpse of the longest partial lunar eclipse since 1440, when Henry VI was the King of England and the Inca Empire was expanding. Jan Cami, director of the Hume Cronyn Memorial Observatory at Western University in London, Ont., said the event will last a total of 208.4 minutes, which is quite long for a partial eclipse. He said the partial eclipse on Feb. 18, 1440 lasted 208.8 minutes. As the moon passes through the Earth's shadow, it will take on a reddish, coppery hue, cast by the sunlight refracting through our atmosphere. Movie of the "NEAR TOTAL ECLIPSE." LONGEST PARTIAL LUNAR ECLIPSE in 580 years occurs on morning of November 19th. 1st parts of the eclipse begin at 1:02AM EST. Max eclipse occurs at 4:02 AM when 97% of MOON in darkest part of Earth's shadow. <a href="https://t.co/2HwPpqPbbd">pic.twitter.com/2HwPpqPbbd</a>&mdash;@holcombobserv When to watch?  The moon will start to noticeably dim just after 2 a.m. ET on Friday, as it begins to slip into the Earth's shadow, or umbra. According to NASA, the peak will occur at about 4 a.m. ET. At its height, it will be very close to a total eclipse — 97 per cent of the moon will be covered by the Earth's shadow, leaving only a sliver exposed on the left side. By 5:47 a.m. ET, the moon will emerge again. Peak viewing times across Canada include: St. John's: 5:30 a.m.  Halifax, Charlottetown, Fredericton: 5 a.m. Ottawa, Toronto, Montreal: 4 a.m. Winnipeg, Regina: 3 a.m. Edmonton, Calgary, Whitehorse: 2 a.m. Vancouver: 1 a.m.  A world map shows where the eclipse will be visible at the time of greatest eclipse. Earlier parts of the eclipse are visible farther east, while later times are visible farther west. All of North America, as well as large parts of South America, Polynesia, eastern Australia and northeastern Asia, will be able to see the event, weather permitting. (NASA) According to Cami, the next time a partial eclipse will last this long will be in 2669. He explained that the reason for the length is because it's very close to a total eclipse. A total eclipse has two partial phases — one before the total phase and one after the total phase. The only time there's an exceptionally long partial eclipse is when it is near-total. How to watch There's no need for special equipment to watch the eclipse, but if you want to boost your viewing experience, try using a telephoto lens on a camera, binoculars or a telescope. "With telescopes, seeing how the shadow creeps over the moon's surface is quite fascinating," Cami said. If it's cloudy, you can also opt to watch the eclipse live online at the Virtual Telescope Project. WATCH | Animation of a total lunar eclipse:  Animation of a total lunar eclipse 1 day ago 0:41This video produced by NASA shows how a lunar eclipse works, as the moon orbits the Earth and enters its shadow. 0:41 Unlike a solar eclipse, when the moon passes between the sun and the Earth, a lunar eclipse occurs when the Earth is between the sun and the moon. Cami said many people aren't aware that there is actually a connection between the two types of eclipses: A solar eclipse always precedes or follows a lunar eclipse by two weeks. "You always have a full moon and a new moon during an eclipse season, and in the full moon you will have a lunar eclipse, and during the new moon you will have a solar eclipse," he said. But the upcoming solar eclipse on Dec. 4 will be visible only in Antarctica. November's full moon is sometimes called the Beaver Moon, a reference to the time when beavers finalize winter preparations and take shelter in their lodges for the season, according to the Almanac. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Powerful Webb space telescope featuring Canadian instruments set for Dec. 18 launch Things finally looking up for DIY astronomers Canada announces plans to land a rover on the moon Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now