Petra Vlhova gets the best of Mikaela Shiffrin in slalom, again | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Petra Vlhova gets the best of Mikaela Shiffrin in slalom, again | CBC Sports Loaded Skiing Petra Vlhova gets the best of Mikaela Shiffrin in slalom, again Petra Vlhova got the better of Mikaela Shiffrin for the second time in two days Sunday, winning another women's World Cup slalom in Levi, Finland. Social Sharing Slovakian forces American to settle for 2nd silver in as many days The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 9:35 AM ET | Last Updated: 4 hours ago Slovakia's Petra Vlhova, last year's overall World Cup champion, won her second slalom in as many days, beating American Mikaela Shiffrin by 47-100ths of a second on Sunday in Finland. "It was so difficult today. ... It was like a big fight," she says. (Millo Moravski/Agence Zoom/Getty Images) comments Petra Vlhova got the better of Mikaela Shiffrin for the second time in two days Sunday, winning another women's World Cup slalom in Levi, Finland. The overall World Cup champion from Slovakia was 18-100ths of a second ahead after the first run and ultimately beat her American rival by 47-100ths. Shiffrin nearly skied out in her final run but did well to recover as she came off the race line turning into the steep pitch and only just managed to clear the next gate. "I am not disappointed with anything," said Shiffrin, who has won the race four times. "I was pushing, made a mistake, and we don't know what would have happened without the mistake. But after that, I pushed even harder." Like she did in Saturday's race, Vlhova posted the fastest time in both runs. Her winning margin on Sunday was 16-100ths bigger than the day before. WATCH | Dominant Vlhova earns 14th career slalom win: Petra Vlhová wins Women's slalom World Cup event 6 hours ago 8:39Slovakia's Petra Vlhová topped the standings of the women's slalom competition from the FIS World Cup in Levi, Finland. 8:39 "I like Levi. It was so difficult today. Honestly, I didn't like too much the second run, so it was like a big fight," Vlhova said. It was the Slovakian's 22nd career win, 14th in slalom, and fifth in Levi. No skier other than Vlhova or Shiffrin has won the race in Finland since Tina Maze triumphed in 2014. Vlhova dominant on slopes in Finland, beats rival Shiffrin to open World Cup season Vlhova makes Slovakian skiing history with women's overall World Cup title Lena Durr placed third as the top three were identical to Saturday's race. The German was .78 behind for her third career podium finish. Slalom World Cup and world champion Katharina Liensberger of Austria was 1.64 back in eighth. Smooth transition In the first run, Vlhova was just under two-tenths of a second faster than Shiffrin on a course set by one of the American's coaches, Jeff Lackie. Only 1-100th ahead at the second check point, Vlhova gained more time on Shiffrin with a smooth transition from the flat into the steep middle section. "On the flat part I felt not so good because today is harder and the snow surface is more aggressive, so I went really full gas in the steep part," said Vlhova, who had been in Finland for three weeks to prepare intensively for the first two slaloms of the seasons. The victory earned Vlhova a fifth reindeer, a prize given to the race winner each year, and she named it after her brother, Boris, as "he is always with me and supports me." "I will do at home some small farm," the Slovakian said jokingly. The animals remain on a local farm in Finland. Vlhova and Shiffrin now share the lead in the overall standings with 260 points each. Slovenia's Andreja Slokar, who won last week's parallel event in Austria where neither Vlhova nor Shiffrin raced, is third with 184. 'Equal chances': World Cup skiing has balanced schedule More Alpine skiing coverage Having dealt with back pain that hampered her preparation for the last few weeks, Shiffrin was aiming for her 46th career win in slalom. It would have seen her match a 32-year-old record for most World Cup wins in a single discipline, set by Swedish great Ingemar Stenmark in giant slalom. Her next chance to reach the mark comes in front of an American home crowd in Killington, Vermont, next Sunday. "I have a little bit more confidence after feeling that I could push my skiing … and that's a really big step," Shiffrin said. "It's also a home race and I want to do well and have a good record there. So, there is some expectations, some pressure there as well, but it's always very exciting to race in Killington." The race weekend on the East Coast also consists of a giant slalom on Saturday. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Vlhova dominant on slopes in Finland, beats rival Shiffrin to open World Cup season Vlhova makes Slovakian skiing history with women's overall World Cup title 'Equal chances': World Cup skiing has balanced schedule Back from injury and 'broken heart', Mikaela Shiffrin eyes World Cup record in Finland More Alpine skiing coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now