Pets - CBC Life Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch life CBC Life Shows Food Style Home Wellness Culture Work & Money Currently Selected: Pets Giveaways & Submissions Video Travel More Pets - CBC Life Loaded Pets - CBC Life Featured Content CBC Toronto Photographer captures powerful bond between LGBTQ community, their rescue dogs Don't You Want Me project tells stories of hope, resilience as LGBTQ members transition, grow. Pets |November 15 27 Canadian pets who wore incredibly cute Halloween costumes this year Cats as condiments, dogs as donuts, pigs in pearls and more standout outfits you need to see. Brittany Toole Pets |November 1| CBC Nova Scotia These therapy goats are changing people's lives Kim and Blair Davis of Lawrencetown, N.S., started with one goat and now have 48 therapy goats that can help people work through many mental health issues, from PTSD to anxiety. Pets |October 27 CBC Toronto How Fanny the 3-legged dog won a spot in a calendar for pets with mobility issues Toronto pooch to strut her stuff in the 2022 edition of Walkin' Pets. Pets |October 20 How will your dog handle you returning to your workplace? Peter Saltsman Pets |May 28| 20 Canadian pets in the most perfect Halloween costumes Brittany Toole Pets |November 2, 2020| CBC Kitchener-Waterloo The pandemic puppy craze is creating a veterinary crisis Pets |September 15 It's dog day! Here are 30 Canadian Instagram pups you just have to follow Brittany Toole Pets |August 26| CBC British Columbia Sniffer dogs trained at Vancouver Coastal Health can now detect COVID-19 on humans Pets |August 16 15 Canadian cat-fluencers to follow on Instagram Brittany Toole Pets |August 9, 2019| CBC British Columbia Whatever happened to the Salish woolly dog? Learn more about this extinct breed with virtual history lessons Pets |July 22 Summer pup 101: Everything you need to know about keeping your dog cool and healthy this season Brittany Toole Pets |July 30, 2018 CBC British Columbia Why some pet owners are taking their felines on the cat walk — and why it's not as easy as it looks Pets |May 25 11 dog training tutorials to help homeschool your pup Pets |April 23, 2020| CBC Radio Ideas Why cats may have more to teach us about living the good life than Socrates Pets |May 10 Hello Spring Canadians share their scenes from spring and their adorable pets Pets |May 6 CBC North 'They're all my favourites': Yukon bylaw officer takes selfies with animals he picks up Pets |April 20 A beginner's guide to grooming your dog at home Truc Nguyen Pets |April 28, 2020| The Sunday Magazine What's next for all those pandemic pets? Pets |March 31 Meet Luna the blind rescue cow and watch her finally get to play outside for the first time Life Video |April 16, 2020| CBC Radio From scavenger to household royalty: How dogs evolved from wolves to pampered pets Pets |March 3 CBC Indigenous Dog blankets aren't just for sled dogs anymore, meet Rikki Pets |February 23 CBC Edmonton Meet Hunter, Edmonton's professional painting dog Pets |February 16 CBC Calgary Sully's stroller: Dog owner makes mobility device so pooch can still go on mountain trips Pets |January 13 Video Meet Ivy, an abandoned baby deer who survived thanks to a family of campers Life Video |March 12, 2020|Load More Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now