Pfizer signs deal to let generic drug companies make its COVID-19 antiviral pill | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Health Care and Treatment Pfizer signs deal to let generic drug companies make its COVID-19 antiviral pill Arrangement would make the pill available to many poor and middle-income countries Pfizer has signed an agreement that would allow generic drug manufacturers to make its experimental COVID-19 antiviral pill for use in 95 countries. Its company headquarters in New York is shown in this photo from Nov. 2020. Photo: The Associated Press / Ted Shaffrey RCI Posted: November 16, 2021 4:04 PM Pfizer Inc. has signed a deal with a UN-backed group to allow other manufacturers to make its experimental COVID-19 antiviral pill, a move that could make the treatment available to more than half of the world's population. In a statement issued Tuesday, Pfizer said it would grant a licence for the antiviral pill to the Geneva-based Medicines Patent Pool, which would let generic drug companies produce the pill for use in 95 countries, making up about 53 per cent of the world's population. The deal excludes some large countries that have suffered devastating coronavirus outbreaks. For example, while a Brazilian drug company could get a licence to make the pill for export to other countries, the medicine could not be made generically for use in Brazil. Still, health officials said the fact that the deal was struck even before Pfizer's pill has been authorized anywhere could help to end the pandemic quicker. WATCH | Learn more about Pfizer's experimental antiviral pill:  Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? It's quite significant that we will be able to provide access to a drug that appears to be effective and has just been developed, to more than four billion people, Esteban Burrone, head of policy at the Medicines Patent Pool, said. He estimated that other drugmakers would be able to start producing the pill within months, but acknowledged the agreement wouldn't please everyone. We try to strike a very delicate balance between the interests of the [company], the sustainability required by generic producers and most importantly, the public health needs in lower and middle-income countries, Burrone said. Pfizer's clinical trial halted after promising results Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer will not receive royalties on sales in low-income countries, and will waive royalties on sales in all countries covered by the agreement while COVID-19 remains a public health emergency. Earlier this month, Pfizer said its clinical trial showed the pill cut the risk of hospitalization and death (new window) by between 85 and 89 per cent in people with mild to moderate coronavirus infections, if taken within three to five days of symptom onset.  Independent experts recommended halting the company's study based on its promising results. Pfizer says antiviral COVID-19 pill cuts risk of severe disease by 89% in high-risk adults (new window) CBC EXPLAINS What's happening with antiviral drugs to treat COVID-19? (new window) Pfizer said it would ask the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulators to authorize the pill as soon as possible. Health Canada would review 'on a priority basis' Earlier this month, Health Canada said it had not received a submission from Pfizer for the antiviral drug, called Paxlovid, but said in an email to CBC News that if it received an application, it will be reviewed on a priority basis.  As of Tuesday morning, the drug was not listed in Health Canada's COVID-19 drug and vaccine (new window) applications database.  Since the pandemic erupted last year, researchers worldwide have raced to develop a pill to treat COVID-19 that can be taken at home easily to ease symptoms, speed recovery and keep people out of the hospital. At the moment, most COVID-19 treatments must be delivered intravenously or by injection. Britain authorized Merck's COVID-19 antiviral pill (new window) earlier this month, and it is pending approval elsewhere, including in Canada.  In a similar deal with the Medicines Patent Pool announced in October, Merck agreed to let other drugmakers make its COVID-19 pill, molnupiravir, available in 105 poorer countries. U.K. 1st country to authorize use of Merck's coronavirus antiviral pill (new window) Doctors Without Borders said it was disheartened that the Pfizer deal does not make the drug available to the entire world, noting that the agreement announced Tuesday also excludes countries including China, Argentina and Thailand. The world knows by now that access to COVID-19 medical tools needs to be guaranteed for everyone, everywhere, if we really want to control this pandemic, said Yuanqiong Hu, a senior legal policy adviser at Doctors Without Borders. The decisions by Pfizer and Merck to share their COVID-19 drug patents stands in stark contrast to the refusal of Pfizer and other vaccine-makers to release their vaccine recipes for wider production. A hub set up by the World Health Organization in South Africa intended to share messenger RNA vaccine recipes and technologies has not enticed a single pharmaceutical company to join. Fewer than one per cent of Pfizer's COVID-19 shots have gone to poorer countries. The Associated Press · With files from CBC News With information from Associated Press. Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021