Pierre Nantel will run for the PQ in by-election on Montreal's South Shore | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Pierre Nantel will run for the PQ in by-election on Montreal's South Shore | CBC News Loaded Montreal Pierre Nantel will run for the PQ in by-election on Montreal's South Shore After getting elected with the NDP twice and later switching to the Green Party, Pierre Nantel will be running in the PQ stronghold Marie-Victorin since former MNA Catherine Fournier became mayor of Longueuil. Social Sharing Nantel was elected with the NDP twice before moving to the Green Party CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 2:13 PM ET | Last Updated: 2 hours ago Pierre Nantel, who is now running for the PQ, was formerly a Green Party candidate. (Radio-Canada) Former MP Pierre Nantel will try his luck under the Parti Québécois (PQ)'s banner in the Marie-Victorin riding by-election on Montreal's South Shore. The riding was left vacant after independent MNA Catherine Fournier was elected mayor of Longueuil earlier this month. "We're fortunate to have a candidate that is truly rooted locally," PQ leader Paul St-Pierre Plamondon said in the announcement. "[He] embodies exactly what we want to embody. That is to say, he brings people together in the name of credible responses to the environment, language, and culture." Nantel was elected in 2011 with the NDP in Longueuil — Saint-Hubert and again in 2015 before his party ousted him in 2019, after it got wind Nantel was in talks to join another party. The former MP later joined the Green Party when he ran as a candidate in the same riding and was defeated. On Thursday, St-Pierre Plamondon announced that he would not be a candidate in the by-election in Marie-Victorin. The riding, located in the Vieux-Longueuil borough, has been a PQ stronghold since 1981. Premier François Legault said a by-election would be held in the riding after Christmas, but the exact date has not yet been announced. The by-election must take place within six months of Fournier's official departure, as stipulated in article 130 of the Election Act. With files from Radio-Canada's Sébastien Bovet and Valérie Gamache CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories CAQ to run candidate in Marie-Victorin, Legault says as general meeting kicks off Analysis Pierre Nantel's split from the NDP shows how far the party has fallen in Quebec Quebec Liberals willing to let new PQ leader run unopposed in byelection Laval and Longueuil voters elect young mayors to lead cities Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now