Podcasts | cbc.ca Podcasts Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Currently Selected: Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Podcasts | cbc.ca Podcasts Loaded Podcasts | cbc.ca Podcasts Featured Podcasts Limited Capacity Limited Capacity is a collection of six short stories about the strange and twisted ways we interact with the internet, and with each other. Punctuated with dark humour and surprising twists, each episode blurs the lines between horror, thriller, mockumentary and satire. From Rob Norman, co-creator of Personal Best. The Next Call with David Ridgen From David Ridgen, the creator of Someone Knows Something, comes the new investigative podcast The Next Call. Tackling unsolved cases through strategic phone calls, the curtain is peeled back. From the victim's family members to potential suspects, the investigation unfolds with The Next Call. White Hot Hate ‘White Hot Hate’ follows the extraordinary case of a Canadian journalist who infiltrated an international neo-Nazi extremist network. Host Michelle Shephard explores the rise of white supremacist accelerationism: the ultra-violent ideology that drives believers to create chaos, in order to seize ultimate control. Carrie Low VS. Carrie Low trusted police when she reported her horrific rape. But she says they mishandled her case. Now, she’s setting out on a mission to hold these institutions to account. Stuff The British Stole They came. They saw. They looted. An award-winning podcast about stolen and dubiously-acquired artifacts. Hosted by Marc Fennell and presented in collaboration with ABC in Australia. Tony Ho Award-winning sketch troupe Tony Ho takes listeners on a journey of dark comedy. Bite-sized narrative sketches explore the nature of human relationships and how careless we can be with each other. Featuring Miguel Rivas, Roger Bainbridge and Adam Niebergall. Unlocking the Fountain From Keith McArthur, writer and host of Unlocking Bryson's Brain. Unlocking the Fountain asks: what if there were a pill that could add decades to your life? For thousands of years, people have searched for elixirs that could extend human life. Could new advances in medicine finally make this a reality? The Flamethrowers The Flamethrowers with Justin Ling is a six-part series about how right wing radio took over American democracy — from the conspiracy peddlers of the 1920s to the political firestorm still raging today. The Village Transgender women — and trans sex workers in particular — know what it means to be marginalized, overpoliced, and underprotected. In season two of The Village, host Justin Ling investigates the stories of two women, Alloura Wells and Cassandra Do, whose deaths remain unexplained, and whose cases expose the systems that failed them. Recovering Filipino Host Jim Agapito is a "bad Filipino." The Filipino-Canadian filmmaker can't speak Tagalog and is stumped by some of the things Filipinos do and believe. Join Jim on this enlightening, joyful, and surprising 10-episode mission to recover his culture. Telling Our Twisted Histories Words connect us. Words hurt us. Indigenous histories have been twisted by centuries of colonization. Host Kaniehti:io Horn brings us together to decolonize our minds– one word, one concept, one story at a time. A Death in Cryptoland The unbelievable story of a dead man, lost Bitcoin fortunes, and an industry that criminals love. Other People's Problems Listen in on real life therapy sessions. Other people’s problems are a lot like our own. Life Jolt Life Jolt — prison slang for a life sentence — examines the lives of women navigating Canada’s correctional system. Inappropriate Questions Inappropriate Questions is a podcast that explores and deconstructs invasive questions often asked to different communities. Whether it’s “What are you?”, “Can you have sex?”, or “Why don’t you drink?”, the show explores what these questions imply, their social and historical contexts, and why people ask them. Chosen Family A conversational podcast hosted by queer, cosmically-destined BFFs Thomas Leblanc and Tranna Wintour. Join Chosen Family every second week for deep and spontaneous conversations featuring renowned artists and up-and-coming creators. Welcome to the family! All Podcasts Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now