Politics - CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Currently Selected: Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Politics - CBC News Loaded Politics - CBC News Featured Content Federal ministers update state of emergency in B.C. 7 seconds ago Live Updated A week after flooding hit B.C., federal ministers to provide update as severe weather looms The B.C. government is asking people in various areas to prepare for severe weather Sunday as residents in other parts deal with the ravages of flooding and mudslides. At 4 p.m. ET, federal ministers of emergency preparedness, defence, transport and environment will give an update on where things stand. Canada -British Columbia |30 minutes ago First COVID-19 vaccines for children to arrive in Canada on Sunday The first deliveries of Pfizer-BioNTech's COVID-19 vaccine for children aged five to 11 are scheduled to arrive in Canada on Sunday, with 2.9 million set to be delivered by the end of the week. Politics |1 hour ago| Wrangling over language may slow online harm bill, anti-hate groups say A group of anti-hate organizations is concerned that the passage of a bill dealing with online hate could be delayed for years by debates over wording. Politics |4 hours ago| Analysis The Trudeau government wants a new trade pact with Southeast Asia. It won't be easy In search of an Asia-Pacific strategy that doesn't rely on China, the Trudeau government has revived its push toward preferential trade with the 10 countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Landing a deal that isn't off-brand with its "progressive" trade agenda won't be easy. Politics |12 hours ago| New U.S. admiral warns of China threat and urges allies to work and train more closely The United States and its allies should move more urgently in the face of rapidly evolving Chinese military tactics, the new U.S. commander of the Indo-Pacific region has warned the Halifax International Security Forum. Politics |6 hours ago| MINORITY REPORT New Parliament, old traditions: Here's what to expect when MPs return this week The opening days of the 44th Canadian Parliament this week will be steeped in age-old British traditions that might seem a little strange. Politics |12 hours ago| Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing, 56, dies following struggle with COVID-19 Canada -Sudbury |November 20 Exclusive Canada urged to put more weight behind Ukraine NATO bid as Russian buildup continues Politics |November 20| Biden may be open to a carve-out for Canada on electric vehicle tax credit, says ex-diplomat Radio -The House |November 20| Staying put to save the planet: How remote work might help Canada cut emissions Politics |November 20| The Métis National Council's new leader has a date with the Pope and divisions to heal Politics |November 20 CBC Radio's The House: Fighting floods, tackling protectionism Radio -The House |November 20| MINORITY REPORT New Parliament, old traditions: Here's what to expect when MPs return this week Politics |12 hours ago| Analysis The Trudeau government wants a new trade pact with Southeast Asia. It won't be easy Politics |12 hours ago| COVID-19 vaccines for children will start arriving Sunday, government says Politics |November 20| Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Business |November 19 White House official says U.S. open to discussions with Canada about proposed EV incentive Politics |November 20| Kevin Vuong says he was 'naive' not to disclose withdrawn sex assault charge, but will continue as MP Canada -Toronto |November 19 Erin O'Toole says all Conservative MPs vaccinated or granted exemptions ahead of reopening of House Politics |November 19| RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Politics |November 19| Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Power & Politics Canada's premier daily political show, 5 to 8 p.m. ET weekdays on CBC News Network. Click for video clips and more about our panelists. Watch the full episodes The House CBC Radio's The House with host Chris Hall takes you behind the scenes of Canadian politics. Listen to the full episodes Rosemary Barton A weekly dose of compelling conversations on the need-to-know political news and issues affecting Canadians, through the lens of people living them. Watch the full episodes Power & Politics Video now Power & Politics - 10 videos 7:47 Canada gears up to vaccinate kids ages 5-11Power and Politics2 days ago 7:02 Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for children aged 5-11Power and Politics2 days ago 11:14 U.S. House of Representatives passes social spending bill with contentious electric vehicle tax creditPower and Politics2 days ago 6:34 U.S. congressman confirms Trudeau pushed back on EV tax credit in WashingtonPower and Politics3 days ago 4:35 Canada expected to take firm stance on U.S. electric vehicle tax creditPower and Politics3 days ago 2:33 Expect movement on electric vehicle tax credit proposal, says key democratic congressmanPower and Politics3 days ago 6:17 Closing Line 5 would have 'detrimental impact,' says Enbridge VPPower and Politics3 days ago 13:05 Former U.S. ambassador to Canada says electric vehicle tax credit jeopardizes USMCAPower and Politics3 days ago 10:57 Hundreds of military personnel being deployed to support B.C. flood evacuationsPower and Politics4 days ago 8:04 Senator Batters rejects MP's request that she withdraw petition calling for O'Toole's ousterPower and Politics6 days ago More CBC News Analysis Trudeau's U.S. visit delivers wake-up call about new North American reality Alexander Panetta World |November 20| Video After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he's still concerned about threats to Canada's auto sector John Paul Tasker Politics |November 19| The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should follow, experts say Mark Gollom Politics |November 19 Federal government vows to help B.C. rebuild after catastrophic flooding Nick Boisvert Politics |November 19| Video Video Former U.S. ambassador to Canada says electric vehicle tax credit jeopardizes USMCA November 19 Video Health Canada expected to announce approval of Pfizer vaccine for kids on Friday: source Politics |November 19| THE FIFTH ESTATE WE Charity misled donors about building schools in Kenya, records show Matthew Pierce Canada |2 hours ago No injuries reported after Canadian frigate catches fire at sea Murray Brewster Politics |November 18|Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now