Pratyush Dayal - Reporter | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Pratyush Dayal - Reporter | CBC Loaded Pratyush Dayal Reporter Pratyush Dayal is a reporter with CBC Saskatoon. He has previously written for the Globe and Mail, the Vancouver Sun, the Province and the Tyee. He holds a Master of Journalism degree from UBC and can be reached at pratyush.dayal@cbc.ca Twitter: @Pratyush_Dayal_ Latest from Pratyush Dayal Transgender Day of Remembrance vigil organizers say transphobia is still a big issue in Sask. According to the Trans Murder Monitoring project, 375 murders were reported worldwide between October 2020 and September, making 2021 the deadliest year for trans and gender-diverse people. Sask. trans individuals and LGBTQ organizations hold vigils on the international day of mourning and memorial for transgender people. November 20 Rock art found at Wanuskewin Heritage Park as 4 petroglyphs excavated Four petroglyphs were found at Wanuskewin Heritage Park north of Saskatoon. Only one will be on display at the park starting Friday. Wanuskewin Heritage Park will be making its submission for consideration for UNESCO world heritage designation by the end of 2022. Canada -Saskatoon |November 19 As Saskatoon explores UNDRIP implementation, Indigenous voices want more from federal and provincial leaders While Saskatoon is on its route to potential UNDRIP implementation, Wendy Lynn Lerat, who teaches Indigenous studies at First Nations University of Canada, says the provincial and federal governments need to do more on reconciliation. November 18 Winter storm hits Saskatoon and other parts of Saskatchewan As of early Tuesday afternoon, most of Saskatchewan was either under a wind or winter storm warning, according to Environment and Climate Change Canada, with about three-quarters of the province affected by the winter storm. Canada -Saskatchewan |November 16 Project interviewing Black rural Canadians expands into Sask. Through her Black and Rural project, Jones intends to find how Black Canadians are finding their roots in rural settings. She has teamed up with Heritage Saskatchewan and the Saskatchewan African Canadian Heritage Museum to find Black voices in rural Saskatchewan. November 14 Youth climate activists rally in Saskatoon as COP26 comes to an end today As COP26 comes to an end, youth rallied outside Saskatoon City Hall on Friday pushing for climate action and awareness. Lauren Wright, the 17-year-old student who co-organized the rally, said she is disappointed with COP26 as youth, Indigenous and BIPOC activists were not as well represented as fossil fuel executives. November 13 Indigenous Veterans Day gathering at Batoche, Sask., honours those who sacrificed On Indigenous Veterans Day, members from Métis National Council, First Nations and Métis Nation–Saskatchewan gathered at Batoche to honour Indigenous veterans and their sacrifices. November 8 Sask. cancer patients are angry at Premier Scott Moe and the unvaccinated Saskatchewan cancer patients say they have been pushed into uncertainty as the province disrupted their treatments due to hospitals being packed with COVID-19 patients. They blame Premier Scott Moe and the unvaccinated. November 7 Celebrating Diwali, the festival of lights, amid a second year of darkness Hindus, Sikhs and Jains across Saskatchewan will be celebrating Diwali, the festival of lights, on Thursday. November 4 Carrie Bourassa's suspension 'bittersweet,' says Métis professor who brought complaint to U of S Caroline Tait, a Métis professor at the University of Saskatchewan who raised concerns about prominent academic Carrie Bourassa's claims to Indigenous ancestry, says the school's recent decision to put Bourassa on leave is a step in the right direction as tenured professors have a responsibility to tell the truth. November 3Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now