PROFILE — Taya Currie follows her hockey dreams as OHL’s first female draft pick | Article | Kids News Hide Search Search CBC Kids News SEARCH CBC Kids News Hot Topics Topics Indigenous stories #GoodNews Animals Gaming COVID-19 Climate Change Sports Why Why Not Videos Search PROFILE — Taya Currie follows her hockey dreams as OHL’s first female draft pick Story by CBC Kids News • 2021-10-20 06:00 The 16-year-old goalie was selected by the Sarnia Sting We're profiling cool kids doing cool things. Know someone you think should be profiled on our site? Email us at cbckidsnews@cbc.ca and tell us what makes them so awesome. Name Taya Currie Hometown Parkhill, Ontario Age 16 Claim to fame: Nearly nothing gets past Taya Currie when she’s in the net. The 16-year-old hockey player is busy this fall playing goalie for the Blue Water Hawks in Strathroy, Ontario. Taya said she wants to be known as “the goalie everyone hates to play against and loves to have on the team.” The Parkhill, Ontario, native started out strong when she made history as the first female chosen at the Ontario Hockey League Priority Selection draft on June 5. Taya was selected by the Sarnia Sting as the 14th draft pick, 267th overall. She even got to attend a two-day intensive hockey camp with the Sarnia Sting this summer. Although she hasn’t made the team yet, Taya said she hopes to be invited back. “I can be a role model for so many young girls. That’s what I look up to do.” - Taya Currie, 16 Knocking down stereotypes Despite the fact that her selection made history, the news was no surprise given Taya’s reputation at Alliance Hockey. The minor hockey league considered her to be one of its top goaltenders when she played on the Elgin-Middlesex Chiefs triple-A boys’ under-16 team. Taya said her biggest strengths are her quick reflexes and agility in reaction to the puck. PROFILE — Faster than a cheetah, Raine Padgham throws 83 m.p.h. fastball But she doesn’t want to be the girl that plays boys’ hockey. “Treat me like a normal player on the team,” she said. “I don't want to be different than the boys.” Taya Currie joined the Sarnia Sting for a two-day intensive camp weeks after the draft. (Image submitted by Taya Currie) Family ties to hockey Taya’s parents introduced her to hockey when she was just two years old. Both her older sister and brother played the sport, so she followed down that path only to find herself fixated with the goalie position. Taya said she loves the game for its adrenaline rush and the community environment that allows her to hang out with friends. PROFILE — Foot amputation won’t stop this kid from playing hockey Role models sliding in her DMs As if Taya’s life couldn’t get any cooler, she had two professional Canadian goaltenders direct message her on Instagram to congratulate her on the OHL draft pick. The first came from Shannon Szabados, a two-time Olympic gold medalist for Canada in 2010 and 2014. She was also the first woman to play in the Western Hockey League when she was Taya’s age, back in 2002. The second was from Manon Rheaume, who is an Olympic silver medalist and the only woman to ever play in the NHL. Canadian goaltender Shannon Szabados and retired hockey legend Manon Rheaume slid into Taya’s DMs to congratulate her on getting drafted to the OHL. (Image submitted by Taya Currie, graphic design by Mikee Mutuc/CBC) “It's honestly awesome and more than a dream for them to reach out like that,” Taya said. We got gold! 5 cool facts about Canada’s women’s hockey win Plans to go pro Taya said she eventually hopes to play at the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) level in the U.S. Although she has two more years of high school left, she said she’s making plans to visit several colleges that have offered her a sports scholarship. “I'm still working hard,” said Taya. “Working on all my skills and just trying to improve.” With files from: The Canadian Press, Sofia Rodriguez/CBC TOP IMAGE CREDIT: Submitted by Taya Currie, graphic design by Philip Street/CBC Get your class on the same page, add this to Google Classroom Send us feedback Report a typo or inaccuracy More Stories You Might Like We got gold! 5 cool facts about Canada’s women’s hockey win 2021-09-01 15:52 We got gold! 5 cool facts about Canada’s women’s hockey win 2021-09-01 15:52 We got gold! 5 cool facts about Canada’s women’s hockey win 2021-09-01 15:52 PROFILE —  Hockey fan battling cancer gives special gift to Sidney Crosby 2021-05-13 06:00 PROFILE —  Hockey fan battling cancer gives special gift to Sidney Crosby 2021-05-13 06:00 PROFILE —  Hockey fan battling cancer gives special gift to Sidney Crosby 2021-05-13 06:00 Q&A — 17-year-old Yanic Duplessis on being gay and proud in hockey 2021-02-03 16:01 Q&A — 17-year-old Yanic Duplessis on being gay and proud in hockey 2021-02-03 16:01 Q&A — 17-year-old Yanic Duplessis on being gay and proud in hockey 2021-02-03 16:01 Invite CBC Kids News into YOUR classroom Register for a fun and engaging lesson on how news is produced. CLICK HERE > Get your newsletter every Friday A roundup of the week's best stories for tweens. CLICK HERE > Privacy Policy Terms of use Copyright policy Other policies Contact us About Us Feedback form © 2021 CBC Kids News back to top close this modal You are now leaving the CBC Kids News Website. Cancel Okay Cancel Submit close this modal