PROFILE — Kaya Kanashiro on landing role in new series Sort Of | Article | Kids News Hide Search Search CBC Kids News SEARCH CBC Kids News Hot Topics Topics Indigenous stories #GoodNews Animals Gaming COVID-19 Climate Change Sports Why Why Not Videos Search PROFILE — Kaya Kanashiro on landing role in new series Sort Of Story by CBC Kids News • 2021-10-06 11:00 Teen from Mississauga plays part in CBC HBO Max show We're profiling cool kids doing cool things. Know someone you think should be profiled on our site? Email us at cbckidsnews@cbc.ca and tell us what makes them so awesome. Name: Kaya Kanashiro Hometown: Mississauga, Ontario Age: 16 Claim to fame Kaya Kanashiro may be talented enough to have scored a major role in a new TV series, but that doesn't mean she doesn't sometimes experience moments of doubt. The 16-year-old from Mississauga, Ontario, shot the new CBC and HBO Max comedy series Sort Of in 2020. It was her first time filming a television series. Kaya described the experience as fun, but also intimidating at times. “On the first day on set, I didn't really tell many people about this, but I had a little bit of an anxiety attack because I didn't realize that there were so many people that worked together on a show.” Still, despite the initial shock, she said she eventually forgot about all the people and just had fun getting into her character, that of 13-year-old Violet Kaneko-Bauer. The entire season of Sort Of is available to stream on CBC Gem as of Oct. 5. It will begin airing on CBC-TV on Nov. 9.  Playing the character Violet on Sort Of was Kaya Kanashiro’s first professional acting role. She said when she found out she got the job, she was ‘shocked’ and ‘really, really happy.’ (Image credit: CBC) What is Sort Of about? Sort Of is the story of a trans genderfluid young adult, named Sabi, played by Canadian actor Bilal Baig, who is also a co-creator of the series. Like their character, Baig is trans and goes by they/them pronouns. Q&A — Evie MacDonald on playing a transgender teen in new series First Day When the series begins, Sabi is a nanny for a family with two kids living in downtown Toronto. Kaya plays the elder daughter, Violet, who at 13 is pretty sure that she is too old to need a nanny. Kaya, right, described star and co-creator Bilal Baig, left, as ‘so kind.’ She said working on the show and alongside Baig helped teach her that ‘somebody that loves you will always accept you and will always love you for who you are.’ (Image credit: CBC) But, just as Kaya’s family is about to say goodbye to Sabi, they experience an unexpected tragedy that changes the course of all their lives. The show is essentially about growing up and navigating transitions. For Kaya’s character, that means going through the highs and lows of puberty while also dealing with some serious family drama. “I think you can learn a lot from this show and grow from it because there are a lot of topics that we kind of go into and exposure that you don't really see that much.” - Kaya Kanashiro, 16 Playing an angsty tween Kaya and her character Violet have a fair amount in common. They are both young Asian girls of mixed descent growing up in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). WATCH ? Shang-Chi star Simu Liu on his favourite movies, villains and snacks Kaya is of Japanese and Korean descent while Violet’s parents are Korean and white. But, according to Kaya, her and Violet’s personalities are quite different. Violet’s “kind of explosive,” Kaya said. The character is not the type of person to bottle up her feelings. “Versus me, like, if I don't feel happy about something, I normally have to keep it to myself.” Kaya, who filmed the series when she was 15, said she thinks some of this is due to the age difference between herself and her 13-year-old character. WATCH — Canadian teen actor Jacob Tremblay on his new film, Luca She said that when she was younger, she also had a harder time controlling her emotions, so she could relate to Violet. “It was kind of fun because it was like I was remembering what it was like being 13. Because as you grow up, you kind of forget what your past self was like,” she said. Embracing her on-screen family Another difference between Violet and Kaya is their family dynamics. Kaya’s character, Violet, has a younger brother named Henry, played by Canadian actor Aden Bedard. In real life, Kaya is the younger sibling. Kaya, left, with Gray Powell who plays Violet’s dad, centre, and Aden Bedard, right, who plays her brother. Kaya said she had a great relationship with her entire on-screen family, and even started calling Powell ‘dad’ on set. (Image credit: Sonia Recchia/Getty Images) The role helped her sympathize with her real-life older brother. She said she now better understands what it’s like to deal with a younger sibling pestering you. Still, Kaya and her on-set little bro are friends, despite the occasional small arguments. Aden’s “so funny,” Kaya said. ”He always made me laugh and smile.” She acts, she sings, she dances, but she doesn’t like to brag In addition to acting, Kaya is also a classically trained singer. She goes to Cawthra Park Secondary School, an arts high school in Mississauga where she specializes in vocal music. Kaya’s big dream when she was younger wasn’t to be an actor, but a pop star. She said she looks up to K-pop groups like Day6 and South Korean singer-songwriter Yerin Baek. WATCH — BTS, Blackpink, EXO and more: What’s the deal with K-pop? Kaya is also trained in various styles of dance and plays the guitar. Still, despite her accomplishments, Kaya can be shy about sharing her wins. She didn’t tell her classmates about landing the Sort Of role until a week before the first episode aired, when a friend told their music class that they saw Kaya on TV. “I'm kind of strange. I don't really like the idea of being famous. I like kind of just laying low, I guess.” TOP IMAGE CREDIT: CBC Get your class on the same page, add this to Google Classroom Send us feedback Report a typo or inaccuracy Was this story worth reading? More Stories You Might Like Movies, books and music recommendations from Indigenous change-makers 2021-10-01 15:51 Movies, books and music recommendations from Indigenous change-makers 2021-10-01 15:51 Movies, books and music recommendations from Indigenous change-makers 2021-10-01 15:51 PROFILE — Meet Adelyn, an 11-year-old award-winning Indigenous author 2021-09-29 11:00 PROFILE — Meet Adelyn, an 11-year-old award-winning Indigenous author 2021-09-29 11:00 PROFILE — Meet Adelyn, an 11-year-old award-winning Indigenous author 2021-09-29 11:00 PROFILE — This kid is selling queen ants for $30 a pop 2021-08-25 06:00 PROFILE — This kid is selling queen ants for $30 a pop 2021-08-25 06:00 PROFILE — This kid is selling queen ants for $30 a pop 2021-08-25 06:00 Invite CBC Kids News into YOUR classroom Register for a fun and engaging lesson on how news is produced. CLICK HERE > Get your newsletter every Friday A roundup of the week's best stories for tweens. CLICK HERE > Privacy Policy Terms of use Copyright policy Other policies Contact us About Us Feedback form © 2021 CBC Kids News back to top close this modal You are now leaving the CBC Kids News Website. Cancel Okay Cancel Submit close this modal