PROFILE — Teen asks life’s tough questions in Season 3 of podcast for kids | Article | Kids News Hide Search Search CBC Kids News SEARCH CBC Kids News Hot Topics Topics Indigenous stories #GoodNews Animals Gaming COVID-19 Climate Change Sports Why Why Not Videos Search Ever wanted to get to the bottom of life’s tough question? Tai Poole, 14, has you covered. The third season of his podcast, Tai Asks Why, premieres Wednesday. (Image credit: CBC Podcasts) PROFILE — Teen asks life’s tough questions in Season 3 of podcast for kids Story by CBC Kids News • 2021-01-12 07:00 Tai Poole questions astronauts, artists and many more in latest season We're profiling cool kids doing cool things. Know someone you think should be profiled on our site? Email us at cbckidsnews@cbc.ca and tell us what makes them so awesome. Name Tai Poole Hometown Toronto Age 14 In Season 3 of Tai Asks Why, Tai says he has conversations with everyone from NASA experts, to physicists and dancers, to his little brother Kien. (Image credit: CBC Podcasts) Claim to fame Tai Poole doesn’t have time for small talk — he’d rather get to the bottom of life’s tough questions. What’s happening in my teen brain? How is the universe going to end? Why do humans dance? How much screen time is too much? Those are just a few of the questions Tai is going to tackle in his third season of the CBC podcast Tai Asks Why, which premieres on Wednesday. “As soon as I learned how to talk, I just asked questions all day.” — Tai Poole, 14 Born in Vietnam, Tai came to Toronto when he was three years old. Ever since then, he has remained a world traveller who is always searching for answers. “Curiosity just hits you at any time,” Tai said. “I don’t know why it comes to me, but it does, and I’m so glad it does.” His podcast, he says, is a “teenager’s journey and exploration of these really crazy questions.” “It’s my pursuit for knowledge and my following of curiosity and wherever it takes me.” Tai says he has been asking questions ever since he was born. (Image credit: CBC Podcasts) Tai said the COVID-19 pandemic forced him to get even more creative this season. Instead of recording the podcast in-studio, he had to record it from inside his dad’s closet. Luckily, his dad helped him out. “It was a process, but I think we kind of nailed the whole closet podcast,” he said. The upside to producing during a pandemic, Tai said, was that he talked virtually to people from all around the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has forced Tai to set up his recording space in his dad’s closet for sound quality. (Image credit: CBC Podcasts) But that’s not all he has on his list of accomplishments. Tai has also represented Canada twice in the World Mathematics Olympiad. And during what’s left of his spare time, Tai can be found practising piano or coding, which he learned during the pandemic. His advice for teens? Never stop being curious. “Ask questions, it’s great. And getting the answers is so satisfying,” he said. How to listen Season 3 of Tai Asks Why premieres tomorrow and will air every Wednesday for 10 weeks. If you’re interested, you can check out the 25-minute episodes on Apple Podcasts.  But be warned: Tai said he will expand your brain no matter what. “I think you guys will love it,” he said. With files from CBC Podcasts Get your class on the same page, add this to Google Classroom Send us feedback Report a typo or inaccuracy Was this story worth reading? More Stories You Might Like PROFILE — 13-year-old B.C. musician nominated for national blues award 2021-01-06 07:00 PROFILE — 13-year-old B.C. musician nominated for national blues award 2021-01-06 07:00 PROFILE — 13-year-old B.C. musician nominated for national blues award 2021-01-06 07:00 PROFILE — B.C. kid makes colourful street art 2020-11-30 15:13 PROFILE — B.C. kid makes colourful street art 2020-11-30 15:13 PROFILE — B.C. kid makes colourful street art 2020-11-30 15:13 PROFILE — Albertan farm boy wins at World Wake Surfing Championship 2020-11-12 14:59 PROFILE — Albertan farm boy wins at World Wake Surfing Championship 2020-11-12 14:59 PROFILE — Albertan farm boy wins at World Wake Surfing Championship 2020-11-12 14:59 Invite CBC Kids News into YOUR classroom Register for a fun and engaging lesson on how news is produced. CLICK HERE > Get your newsletter every Friday A roundup of the week's best stories for tweens. CLICK HERE > Privacy Policy Terms of use Copyright policy Other policies Contact us About Us Feedback form © 2021 CBC Kids News back to top close this modal You are now leaving the CBC Kids News Website. Cancel Okay Cancel Submit close this modal