Rachel Homan drops 2nd straight match at Canada's Olympic curling trials | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Rachel Homan drops 2nd straight match at Canada's Olympic curling trials | CBC Sports Loaded Curling Rachel Homan drops 2nd straight match at Canada's Olympic curling trials Defending champion Rachel Homan was in an early hole at Canada's Olympic curling trials after dropping a 9-5 decision to Krista McCarville on Sunday in Saskatoon. Social Sharing Krista McCarville downs defending champ while Jennifer Jones improves to 2-0 The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 1:53 PM ET | Last Updated: 2 hours ago Rachel Homan is 0-2 at the Canada's Olympic curling trials. However, a third loss could still be enough to make the playoff cut in the nine-team women's field in Saskatoon. (Chris Graythen/Getty Images/File) comments Defending champion Rachel Homan of Ottawa was in an early hole at Canada's Olympic curling trials after dropping a 9-5 decision to Krista McCarville on Sunday in Saskatoon. The result left Homan (0-2), who lost her opener to Jacqueline Harrison, with a steep hill to climb in round-robin play at the SaskTel Centre. A third loss could still be enough to make the playoff cut in the nine-team women's field. Higher-seeded opponents await Homan's rink in round-robin play, which continues through Friday. As pre-trial winners, McCarville and Harrison are the two lowest-seeded teams in the women's draw. In other games, Jennifer Jones improved to 2-0 with a 10-2 rout of Harrison (1-1) and reigning Canadian champion Kerri Einarson moved to 1-1 with a 10-5 victory over Casey Scheidegger (1-1). Fleury tops Einarson, Homan falls to Harrison to open Canadian Olympic curling trials PreviewCanada's Olympic curling trials a battle of talented, experienced teams Laura Walker (1-1) posted a 9-3 win over Kelsey Rocque (0-1) in the other early matchup. A men's draw was scheduled for the afternoon with the women returning to the ice in the evening. The men's and women's finals on Nov. 28 determine the teams representing Canada in February's Beijing Olympics. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Fleury tops Einarson, Homan falls to Harrison to open Canadian Olympic curling trials Rachel Homan's rink eliminated from 2018 Olympic medal hunt Preview Canada's Olympic curling trials a battle of talented, experienced teams THE BUZZER Who will win Canada's Olympic curling trials? A basketball stats guru might have the answer More curling coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now