RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre RCMP was ordered to stop selling surplus vehicles after a gunman used a retired cruiser in violent rampage RCMP officers police an environmental protest in Richmond, B.C. in October. The force is asking for permission to start reselling some of its decommissioned vehicles, including ATVs. Photo:  (Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press) RCI Posted: November 19, 2021 4:06 PM The RCMP is asking for permission to restart a program of selling off decommissioned police vehicles and surplus auto parts — a program that was halted after a gunman used a retired RCMP cruiser during one of the worst firearms massacres in Canadian history. The RCMP says it's running out of space to store its surplus vehicles. In April of 2020, the gunman — who was impersonating a police officer — drove a former RCMP vehicle across rural Nova Scotia and killed 22 people before being shot dead by police. The former cruiser had been purchased at auction.  Following months of public outcry, then-Public Safety minister Bill Blair announced a moratorium on sales of surplus police cars in January, saying it was necessary to ensure they cannot easily be misused for criminal purposes. The moratorium also included ATVs, snowmobiles, boats, dirt bikes, engines, trailers and auto parts such as consoles and tires. 9 months after deadly N.S. shooting, Ottawa halts sales of decommissioned RCMP vehicles (new window) CBC INVESTIGATESInstructions for outfitting an RCMP car were left on federal website after Nova Scotia attacks in 2020 (new window) Manitoba man accused of using decommissioned police car to impersonate officer: RCMP (new window) According to a briefing note obtained through an access to information request, RCMP Commissioner Brenda Lucki wants the department to carry on selling what she calls low risk vehicles and parts due to the impact suspension of sales is having on operations. RCMP locations and third-party vendors across the country store about 3,600 vehicles and parts every year while they are stripped and modified, Lucki wrote in the briefing note. The force says it makes about $8 million annually from selling off such assets. (new window) The RCMP is working with [the government's auction site] to minimize the impact of the resulting backlog and storage of decommissioned vehicles which is having an impact on operations, Lucki wrote in the briefing note. It is critical to have sufficient space at either RCMP locations or at third vendors to maintain the continual flow of new vehicles being fit-up, ensuring operational vehicles remain in service and decommissioning those vehicle that are at the end of their useful life. In April 2020, a gunman impersonating a police officer drove a former RCMP vehicle across rural Nova Scotia before he was shot dead by police. The former cruiser had been purchased at auction. Photo: (Nova Scotia RCMP) Lucki suggested a phased-in approach to reducing the backlog of surplus vehicles. Phase one is what the RCMP is doing now: leasing temporary storage space and crushing decommissioned vehicles that have been involved in accidents or no longer work — vehicles the RCMP says have low resale values. Phase two would permit the police service to sell off-road vehicles. Phase three would allow sales of on-road vehicles, such as Dodge Caravans and Toyota Camrys. In her briefing note, Lucki insists phase three sales would not include vehicles the public would recognize as police cars, such as Dodge Chargers or Ford Explorers. The RCMP is undergoing an internal and external review to decide how to handle those vehicles. The sale of low-risk RCMP fleet assets would align with the current sales from other government departments, which also supports environmental and economic considerations, Lucki wrote. It's not clear when or if the RCMP would move to phases two and three. The RCMP continues to work towards the implementation of phase two and three, which pertain to the sale of low-risk vehicles. Unfortunately, we are currently unable to confirm any further detail on timing, said RCMP spokesperson Sgt. Caroline Duval. That said, there is no intent to consider any options for the sale of purpose-built policing vehicles or their associated parts until the recommendations from the internal and external reviews can be implemented, as these vehicles are perceived to pose the highest risk to the RCMP and public safety. Catharine Tunney (new window) · CBC News Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021