Rescuers lift hundreds of motorists trapped on B.C. highway to safety | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Rescuers lift hundreds of motorists trapped on B.C. highway to safety | CBC News Loaded British Columbia Rescuers lift hundreds of motorists trapped on B.C. highway to safety Rescuers, using military helicopters, lifted hundreds of people trapped overnight in their cars by two mudslides that blocked a southern B.C. highway Sunday night after a pounding rainstorm. Social Sharing Roughly 300 people were ferried to reception centre in military helicopters CBC News · Posted: Nov 15, 2021 5:14 AM PT | Last Updated: November 16 A woman stranded by landslides near Agassiz, B.C., is pulled into a helicopter by Canadian Forces members on Monday. (Submitted by Cory Lysohirka) Rescuers, using military helicopters, lifted to safety hundreds of people trapped overnight in their cars by two mudslides that blocked a southern B.C. highway Sunday night during a pounding rainstorm. The landslides, which occurred on Highway 7 near Agassiz, B.C., about 125 kilometres east of Vancouver, came as communities in southern parts of the province were hammered by heavy rain and high winds. Cory Lysohirka was driving home from Kamloops to B.C.'s Lower Mainland with his wife and two children when the heavy rainfall and washouts on the highway grew threatening. "You could see the waterfall coming, and I thought: 'Is this going to hit?' It sounds cliche, but I really thought: 'Is this the day I am done?'" Non-stop extreme rain brings flooding, mudslides and evacuations to southern B.C. Entire city of Merritt, B.C., ordered to evacuate after flooding of wastewater treatment plant Eventually, mudslides blocked the road in front of him — as well as behind their vehicle — effectively trapping them, and Lysohirka could not drive any farther. "It was like the twilight zone," he said Monday from a reception centre in Agassiz after he and his family were rescued. They were lifted off the road by military personnel who ferried groups of 20 from the highway to the nearby reception centre. A vehicle is caught in a landslide near Agassiz, B.C., on Monday. (Submitted by Cory Lysohirka) By Monday afternoon, around 300 people were rescued. Officials said no one was injured.  Canadian Forces Cormorant helicopters started the first of multiple rescue flights in the morning. Public Safety Minister Mike Farnworth said conditions were difficult. By late afternoon, officials said people were still stranded on other parts of Highway 7 and on Highway 1 near Hope. On Tuesday, crew members are tasked with searching for people who may have been trapped in debris from the slides. There were no reports of any fatalities on Monday. WATCH | How military helicopters plucked stranded travellers off a B.C. highway cut off by mudslides:  Helicopters rescue dozens trapped on B.C. highway after mudslide 6 days ago 3:53Helicopters are being used to rescue the roughly 275 people who were trapped overnight on the highway near Agassiz, B.C., after a mudslide. 3:53 About 275 people were stuck between the two slides, including 50 children and 20 dogs. Lysohirka said his family was lucky they were well prepared for the ordeal. They had food for the night and games to keep their children, ages eight and 10, occupied. Cory Lysohirka, above, and his family were taken to an emergency centre in Agassiz, B.C., on Monday after being trapped overnight by mudslides on Highway 7. (CBC) Throughout the night Sunday, as temperatures dropped, Lysohirka said other drivers trapped on the highway tried to help each other and checked in with one another. "There was little community going on there, it was nice," he said. Officials believe about 50 vehicles were trapped on Highway 7 between the two debris fields, with approximately two to three people in each vehicle. (Julia Murray) David Boone, the team director of the Heavy Urban Search and Rescue Task Force team in B.C. and an assistant chief at the Vancouver Fire Department, said his team helped rescue at least 12 people trapped in vehicles. Boone and other officials said that the rescue was complicated because there were two separate slides on Highway 7 and rescuers didn't know if people were trapped elsewhere. Fire crews responding to a mudslide on Highway 7 near Agassiz, B.C., gather at a command post set up at a nearby gas station on Sunday. (Shane Mackichan) Martina Martinkova, who was trapped in her vehicle with her daughter on the highway, said she was "very stressed," and that it was difficult to access information about what was going on. She said other people stranded shared their food and water and she was able to communicate with her family to say that she and her daughter were safe as they awaited rescue. WATCH | 'I'm so scared,' says mother trapped in car with daughter: Trapped traveller near Agassiz, B.C., describes close brush with mudslide 6 days ago 8:02Martina Martinkova tells CBC's Heather Hiscox that she and her daughter were about two minutes away from being pounded by one of the mudslides near Agassiz, B.C. 'We were lucky it didn't hit us.' 8:02 "You see this in the movies, honestly, and you thought it will never touch you," she said. "It's very scary." VideoCoquihalla Highway and sections of Hwy 1 closed due to major flood damage As It Happens B.C. woman describes sleepless night on the highway, trapped between landslides Adam Wuisman and his fiancée were travelling back to their home in Richmond, B.C., on Highway 7, following a weekend trip in Nelson when he said a landslide came down behind them.  "We were going westbound and there were huge lines of traffic ... and all of a sudden, I noticed there's no vehicles behind us, which was odd," he told CBC's The Early Edition on Monday morning.  "We must have just missed the first [landslide] and now somehow we're between both of them."  Barge remains aground in English Bay after crash into Vancouver's seawall 'Atmospheric river' in B.C. to be followed by high winds and snow in some areas The pair were stuck on that stretch of Highway 7 since 7:30 p.m. Sunday, Wuisman said.  "I definitely heard people screaming for help," he said.  "It's kind of helpless to feel like you're between a very vulnerable mountainside side and the Fraser River on the other side. And there's really nothing you can do about it, but hope nothing comes down on top of you." With files from Susana da Silva and The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'Atmospheric river' in B.C. to be followed by high winds and snow in some areas Video Coquihalla Highway and sections of Hwy 1 closed due to major flood damage Barge remains aground in English Bay after crash into Vancouver's seawall Non-stop extreme rain brings flooding, mudslides and evacuations to southern B.C. Town of Princeton swamped after floodwaters breach dike Entire city of Merritt, B.C., ordered to evacuate after flooding of wastewater treatment plant Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now