Researchers identify 102 children who died at Nebraska residential school  | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Researchers identify 102 children who died at Nebraska residential school  | CBC Radio Loaded As It Happens Researchers identify 102 children who died at Nebraska residential school  Researchers say they have identified more than 100 children who died at a notorious government-run Native American boarding school in Nebraska, but they are still searching for their remains. Social Sharing Neb. Indian Affairs director says children were casualties in 'a war to steal our lands' CBC Radio · Posted: Nov 17, 2021 5:02 PM ET | Last Updated: 1 hour ago Native American children who were taken from their families attend class at the Genoa U.S. Indian Industrial School in Genoa, Neb. Researchers say they've identified 102 children who died at the school, which closed in the 1930s. (Nebraska Commission on Indian Affairs) 7:32Researchers identify 102 children who died at Nebraska residential school WARNING: This story contains distressing details. Story Transcript Researchers say they have identified more than 100 Indigenous children who died at a notorious government-run boarding school in Nebraska, but they are still searching for their remains. For decades, the U.S. government operated Christian boarding schools designed to strip Indigenous children of their languages and culture — a program that's strikingly similar to Canada's residential school system. As in Canada, abuse and neglect were rampant at the schools, and the Genoa U.S. Indian Industrial School in Genoa, Neb., was no exception. Using old newspaper archives, school newsletters and government records, researchers have learned that at least 102 children died there between 1884, when it opened, and 1934, when it closed. Common causes of death were tuberculosis, pneumonia, the flu and heart failure. "Some other strange, unusual incidents were reported as accidental shootings, drownings, spinal paralysis and a freight car accident — [not] typical happenings at most schools in the world," Judi gaiashkibos, executive director of the Nebraska Commission in Indian Affairs and a citizen of the Ponca Tribe, told As It Happens host Carol Off. "So I suspect that wasn't an accident in some cases, and some kids may have committed suicide and some were killed when they were running away from the school." The research was conducted by the Genoa Indian School Digital Reconciliation Project, a collaboration between the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, the Genoa U.S. Indian School Foundation, descendants of survivors, and representatives from five Indigenous tribes in Nebraska. Searching for burial grounds  Between 1831 and 1996, Canada's federal government took more than 150,000 First Nations, Métis and Inuit children from their families and forced them to attend church-run residential schools. Thousands of children died at the schools, and over the last year, First Nations across Canada have been using ground-penetrating radar to locate their remains. But the records needed to identify those remains are largely lost, scattered among different goverment agencies, or closely guarded by the Catholic church. Do you have information about residential schools? Email your tips to: WhereAreThey@cbc.ca. The Nebraska researchers have so far been able to find the names of 54 children who died at the Genoa school. For the others, they have confirmed gender, tribal affiliation and, in many cases, cause of death.  "We're kind of the reverse of you [in Canada]. We have the names, the records, but we don't have the cemetery where the children are buried," gaiashkibos said. The Genoa U.S. Indian Industrial School in Nebraska was operated by the U.S. federal government between 1884 and 1934. Native American children were taken from their families and forced to attend the school, where they were made to perform hard labour and were forbidden from speaking their own languages. (Nebraska Commission on Indian Affairs) They have begun scanning the former school lands with ground-penetrating radar, but have yet to make any discoveries.  "We're probably going to have to do more surveying, which could take a long time on a big, huge campus like this. [It's] hundreds of acres." To do that, she says they'll need more funding. She's hopeful that will come from the federal government, which announced plans in June to launch an investigation to the history of Native American boarding schools. 'Soldiers of the last Indian war' Life at the Genoa U.S. Indian Industrial School was strict and regimented, says gaiashkibos, whose mother and two aunts were sent there from the Ponca Indian Reservation in the 1920s.  The schools were self-sufficient, so the children were expected to perform unpaid labour after classes to keep things running. They weren't allowed to go home for holidays, and during the summer, gaiashkibos says they were "farmed out to work in white families."  The three sisters were of Ponca and Sioux ancestry, and would speak both languages among each other, gaiashkibos said. "That was forbidden. And if you were found to be doing that, you were beaten, deprived of food, punished, made to kneel down on the ground for hours until your legs were numb," gaiashkibos. "So it was a real, sad, lonely place." Students at the Genoa U.S. Indian Industrial School performed unpaid physical labour to keep the school running. (Nebraska Commission on Indian Affairs) There's no government data on how many Native American boarding schools operated in the U.S., how many children were taken to them, or how many never came home.  But the National Native American Boarding School Healing Coalition estimates there were 367 — more than double the 139 residential schools in Canada. The organization's CEO told As It Happens in June that she suspects twice as many children were taken from their homes in the U.S. as in Canada, and that twice as many may have died. Judi M. gaiashkibos, executive director of the Nebraska Commission in Indian Affairs and a citizen of the Ponca Tribe, pictured alongside a clay sculpture of trailblazing Native American physician, Dr. Susan La Flesche Picotte. (Nebraska Commission in Indian Affairs ) Gaiashkibos sees those students as casualties of a war waged by the U.S. government against Native Americans to destroy their cultures and steal their lands. She says the schools operated in concert with the 1887 Dawes Act, which paved the way for the U.S. government to convert tribal community land into private property and allot it to Native American heads of household — as determined by the government. Surplus land was opened up to non-Indigenous settlement. The U.S. and Canada share a troubling history with residential schools In DepthUnmarked grave findings in Canada prompt reckoning among U.S. churches "They didn't want the children to have their culture. And … most of them, in many cases, wouldn't be returning to their homelands," she said.  "I see them as soldiers of the last Indian war in America, a war to steal our lands, and they used our little children. And in war, some children die. So sadly, these are those children, our soldiers that died. And we're going to do like the American government and find those children and honour those children and bring our soldiers the honour they deserve." Written by Sheena Goodyear. Interview produced by Chloe Shantz Hilkes.  Support is available for anyone affected by their experience at residential schools, and those who are triggered by the latest reports. A national Indian Residential School Crisis Line has been set up to provide support for survivors and those affected. People can access emotional and crisis referral services by calling the 24-hour national crisis line: 1-866-925-4419. More from this episode British poet Alexander Pope made a mythical, mineral-filled grotto — and it's getting restored Woman whose car was struck by landslide in B.C. can barely believe she survived FULL EPISODE: As It Happens: The Wednesday Edition Related Stories Survivors face reopened trauma, but work to identify residential school graves must continue, say chiefs Q&A Indigenous activist 'disgusted' by Winnipeg priest's residential school comments Indigenous archeology and finding the 'children who never came home' Survivors face reopened trauma, but work to identify residential school graves must continue, say chiefs Q&A Pope's visit should include apology and action, says Cowessess First Nation chief  Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now