Residents in Princeton, B.C., sort through ruined belongings in flood-ravaged homes | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Residents in Princeton, B.C., sort through ruined belongings in flood-ravaged homes | CBC News Loaded British Columbia Residents in Princeton, B.C., sort through ruined belongings in flood-ravaged homes A vast swath of the downtown in Princeton, B.C., two hours south of Kamloops was decimated when the Tulameen River overflowed its banks, flooding homes and forcing people to evacuate. Now, residents are sorting through the damage. Social Sharing 'The power of water is unbelievable,' Mario Loutef says as he assesses damage The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 8:03 AM PT | Last Updated: 5 hours ago Mario Loutef cleans up after his home was flooded in Princeton, B.C., on Saturday. 'It was like a tsunami,' he says. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press) Mario Loutef had little sleep the four days leading up to Saturday, when he piled his ruined belongings in the street outside his home in Princeton, B.C. A vast swath of the downtown in the community two hours south of Kamloops was decimated when the Tulameen River overflowed its banks, flooding homes and forcing people to evacuate. Many in the community are still on an evacuation alert, but for residents such as Loutef, the damage couldn't get any worse. "It turned the corner and then it was like a tsunami because it filled up the little streets on the way here," he told The Canadian Press. "But once those were taken care of, that's when the water took care of my space and everybody else on the road." It's like a one-man battle.- Mario Loutef, Princeton, B.C., resident A thick coat of black mud has covered everything on the first floor of the home. Loutef has been working round the clock since he was allowed access. Boards have been ripped off walls; a dirty line about two metres up on the wall shows how deep the water was. "I lost everything. We lost everything, the wife and I. I don't know where to start. I don't know where it's going to end," said Loutef who has lived in the home for four years. "I'm trying to save my tools, which is my bread and butter because if I don't have that, I can't make the revenue. I'm pretty much in the slop … pun intended." Severe impacts of flooding created by perfect storm of circumstances in southern B.C. Streets in the area are closed to traffic. Suction trucks are trying to remove standing water from some basements. The streets and sidewalks are covered in mud. "It's like a one-man battle," said Loutef, who was working alone. "I remember my wife saying, 'Don't forget to remove your shoes,' so I'm going to have to show her. She didn't want to come down here because she's undergoing a shock. She said no smoking in the house too," he said, flicking a cigarette butt onto the floor. Loutef says he tried to save tools that are vital to his livelihood. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press) Piles of debris can be seen everywhere, but Lisa Brosseau and her husband Brian Quinn had friends come over to help. Brosseau said despite having their basement flooded, she feels lucky because a previous owner had raised the home after a flood 35 years ago. "We had a new Airbnb suite and that's gone, but the rest of our house is good. It never came into the top. We have our house. Many people around here don't and it's really difficult," she said. B.C. highways reopen, food systems starting to stabilize, provincial officials say Quinn pointed out where the water entered the basement. "You can see it came down the back door, and blew the door open and ripped the door frame apart, and inside it swirled like some sort of vortex, and everything was all wrapped up and wrecked," Quinn said pointing into the basement. "The power of water is unbelievable." Homeowner Brian Quinn, left, says water swirled through his home 'like some sort of vortex.' (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press) Brosseau said she was worried there was going to be a flood despite sandbagging efforts, and saw it happen. "We were right down the street, and there was a boom and a pop, and it came over the banks," she said. Many residents of Princeton were going from house to house offering a hand to those who were not so lucky. "Our town is amazing," said Britanny Antonick. "It's devastating. I think it's just all shock right now still. All the basements are just all completely saturated. We're just trying to do the best we can." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia Severe impacts of flooding created by perfect storm of circumstances in southern B.C. River above, trouble below: A What On Earth special report Bodies of 3 men recovered, 1 still missing, in mudslide near Lillooet B.C. officials announce limits on gas purchases for non-essential vehicles, travel restrictions B.C. highways reopen, food systems starting to stabilize, provincial officials say Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now