Road to the Olympic Games - The Show - CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Currently Selected: Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Road to the Olympic Games - The Show - CBC Sports Loaded Road To The Olympic Games Home Paralympics Olympic Sports Breakthrough Currently Selected: Shows More Road to the Olympic Games Video Road to the Olympic Games: Diamond League from Brussels Watch all the action from the Diamond League series track and field event in Brussels, Belgium. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |September 3 Video Road to the Olympic Games: Diamond League from Paris Watch all the action from the Diamond League series track and field event in Paris where several of Canada's top athletes will be in action. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |August 28| Video 1:34:10 Video Road to the Olympic Games: 2021 Track and Field Wanda Diamond League Series - Lausanne The very best athletes in the world meet in Lausanne, Switzerland to compete for track & field glory. August 28 Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: Prefontaine Classic Watch all the action from the Diamond League series track and field event in Eugene, Ore., where several Canadian Olympians competed. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |August 22| Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: Diamond League track and field Watch Road to the Olympic Games, our weekly show spotlighting the best high-performance athletes from Canada and around the world. On this week's program, we feature coverage from the Diamond League series track and field event in Gateshead, England. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |July 17| Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: Diamond League track and field Watch Road to the Olympic Games, our weekly show spotlighting the best high-performance athletes from Canada and around the world. On this week's program, we feature coverage from the Diamond League series track and field event in Monaco. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |July 11| Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: Diamond League track and field Watch Road to the Olympic Games, our weekly show spotlighting the best high-performance athletes from Canada and around the world. On this week's program, we feature coverage from the Diamond League series track and field event in Stockholm, Sweden. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |July 5| Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: Canadian Diving Trials Watch Road to the Olympic Games, our weekly show spotlighting the best high-performance athletes from Canada and around the world. On this week's program, watch live action from the Canadian Diving Trials in Toronto. Olympics -Summer Sports -Aquatics -Diving |July 5 Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: Volleyball Nations League Watch Road to the Olympic Games, our weekly program spotlighting the best high-performance athletes from Canada and around the world. On this week's show, catch action from the FIVB Volleyball Nations League in Rimini, Italy. Olympics -Summer Sports -Volleyball |June 6| Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: FIVB Beach Volleyball World Tour: Ostrava Watch Road to the Olympic Games, our weekly program spotlighting the best high-performance athletes from Canada and around the world. On this week's show, catch action from the FIVB Beach Volleyball World Tour stop in Ostrava, Czech Republic. Olympics -Summer Sports -Volleyball -Beach |June 6| Video 1:32:53 Video Road to the Olympic Games: 2021 Track and Field Wanda Diamond League Series: Doha The very best athletes in the world compete in track & field events in Doha, Qatar. May 29 Video 48:20 Video Road to the Olympic Games: FIVB Beach Volleyball World Tour: Sochi The best volleyball players in the world take to the beach in Sochi, Russia. May 29 Video 1:34:08 Video Road to the Olympic Games: 2021 World Athletic Relays Watch the 2021 world athletic relays from Chorzów, Poland. May 2 Video Watch Road to the Olympic Games: Diamond League track and field Watch coverage from the Diamond League series track and field event from Gateshead, England, which will include Canadians Andre De Grasse and Aaron Brown competing in the men's 200-metres. Olympics -Summer Sports -Track and Field |May 23| Video 1:34:23 Video Olympic Games Replay: Canadians to Watch for in Tokyo Get caught up on the Canadian athletes to keep an eye on this summer in Tokyo. May 1 Video 3:07:46 Video Olympic Games Replay: Women of Rio Have a look back at some of the best performances by Canadian women athletes from Rio 2016. April 17 Video 1:34:19 Video Road to the Olympic Games: 2021 World Figure Skating Championships - The Gala Watch the World Figure Skating Championships culminate with the final gala. April 3 Video 3:07:12 Video Road to the Olympic Games: 2021 World Figure Skating Championships Watch the best figure skaters in the world compete in Stockholm, Sweden. March 27 Video 47:05 Video Road to the Olympic Games: Freestyle Skiing World Cup: Ski Halfpipe - Aspen Watch the best skiers in the world compete in the halfpipe in Aspen, Colorado. March 21 Video 47:10 Video Road to the Olympic Games: Freestyle Skiing World Cup: Ski Cross - Veysonnaz Watch the best skiers in the world compete in Veysonnaz, Switzerland. March 21 Video 47:39 Video Road to the Olympic Games: Freestyle Moguls and Aerials World Ski Championships on CBC: Dual Moguls - Almaty Watch the action on the slopes as the best skiers in the world compete in the finals in Almaty, Kazakhstan. March 14 Video 45:26 Video Road to the Olympic Games: Freestyle Skiing World Cup: Ski Cross - Sunny Valley Watch the action on the slopes as the best skiers in the world compete in Sunny Valley, Russia. March 14 Video 48:14 Video Road to the Olympic Games: Freestyle Skiing World Cup Final: Aerials - Almaty Watch the high-flying action as the best skiers in the world compete in the finals in Almaty, Kazakhstan. March 14 Video 1:31:47 Video Road to the Olympic Games: 2021 ISU Short Track World Championships - Dordrecht Watch world-class speed skating competition on the ice in Dordrecht, the Netherlands. March 7 Video 49:47 Video Road to the Olympic Games: Nordic World Ski Championships: Men's Cross Country Skiing - 50km C Watch the best cross-country skiers in the world compete in Oberstdorf, Germany. March 7Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now