Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing, 56, dies following struggle with COVID-19 | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing, 56, dies following struggle with COVID-19 | CBC News Loaded Sudbury Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing, 56, dies following struggle with COVID-19 Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing of Sudbury, Ont., has died following a battle with COVID-19. Her office said this week that while fully vaccinated, she suffered from an autoimmune disorder affecting her lungs. Social Sharing Ontario senator had autoimmune condition affecting her lungs, her office said Tuesday CBC News · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 2:35 PM ET | Last Updated: November 20 Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing of Sudbury, Ont., has died following a battle with COVID-19, the Speaker of the Senate confirmed on Saturday. (Radio-Canada) Sen. Josée Forest-Niesing, 56, has died, after being discharged from hospital this week following treatment for COVID-19. Forest-Niesing, of Sudbury, Ont., was released from hospital on Nov. 14, after being admitted in October. Her office said Tuesday she had struggled for 15 years with an autoimmune disease affecting her lungs.  The Ontario senator was fully vaccinated against COVID-19, but her office said her condition made her more vulnerable to the virus. George Furey, the Speaker of the Senate, confirmed the news in an email to senators and staff on Saturday. "Senator Forest-Niesing contributed to her community as a member and chair of numerous boards of directors, and she will be remembered as an ardent and passionate defender of access to justice in both official languages," Furey said. It is with immense sadness that I learned of the passing of our friend and colleague, the Honourable Josée Forest-Niesing, a proud Franco-Ontarian and passionate defender of access to justice in both official languages. I wish to extend my sincerest condolences to her loved ones.&mdash;@GeorgeFureyNL Prime Minister Justin Trudeau lauded Forest-Niesing as "a dedicated public servant and a champion for minority language communities," while Gov. Gen. Mary Simon said the late senator was "a dear friend to many, and a loyal and cherished colleague." Nickel Belt MP Marc Serré said the news was "heartbreaking," and that Forest-Niesing had always been "there to help people out." "She is a very caring person, and always had a smile. She's been involved in community organizations all over northern Ontario," he said in an interview with CBC News on Saturday. Serré praised her attention and dedication to the concerns and rights of French-speaking Canadians. Serré urged community members to get vaccinated against COVID-19. According to data from Sudbury's public health unit, just under 83 per cent of residents 12 and older were fully vaccinated as of Wednesday. Forest-Niesing is survived by her husband, Robert, and two children, Véronique and Philippe. We in the Senate have lost a remarkable colleague and Canadian, the brilliant and beautiful Josée Forest-Niesing. Witty, graceful, a passionate champion of Franco-Ontario, and of human rights and social justice, she brought intellectual rigour and compassion to every debate. <a href="https://t.co/BBzDGPW6L2">pic.twitter.com/BBzDGPW6L2</a>&mdash;@Paulatics Forest-Niesing's office released a statement earlier in the week promoting COVID-19 vaccines. "Senator Forest-Niesing would like to remind all Canadians of the importance of vaccination and remains convinced her fight would have been much different if it had not been for this protection," the statement said. A lawyer by profession, Forest-Niesing was appointed to the Senate by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in 2018 and she sat with the Independent Senators Group. Furey noted her participation as a community member and service on various boards, which included the Art Gallery of Sudbury, the Carrefour francophone de Sudbury and the University of Sudbury. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now