Smoking on stage is not a form of artistic expression, Quebec judge rules | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society Smoking on stage is not a form of artistic expression, Quebec judge rules Court upholds fines, theatre owners call decision 'shocking' A legal battle pits the right to freedom of expression in Quebec theatres against the right to a smoke-free environment. Photo: shutterstock / sruilk / sruilk RCI Posted: November 10, 2021 4:27 PM A Quebec Court judge has rejected the argument from three Quebec City theatres that allowing actors to smoke onstage during performances is a form of artistic expression protected by the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. In a decision released at a hearing Tuesday, Justice Yannick Couture upheld $500 fines that were assessed by provincial health ministry inspectors between 2017 and 2019 at each of the theatres after complaints from the public. In each case, actors onstage lit up cigarettes of sage instead of tobacco, but according to Quebec's tobacco control act, any product that does not contain tobacco and is intended to be smoked is considered to be tobacco. The theatres involved were shocked and disappointed. Anne-Marie Olivier, artistic director for Théatre Trident, called the decision unacceptable. Anne-Marie Olivier, artistic director of Théatre du Trident, called the decision 'unacceptable' and vowed to fight it. Photo: Radio-Canada We put in place a whole process to be credible, so that the audience believes us, Olivier told Radio-Canada in an interview. That's part of the freedom of expression of directors and playwrights. When we do that, it's not gratuitous, it's truly part of the representation of real life. It's a question of principle, Marc Gourdeau, artistic director of the Premier Acte theatre, told Radio-Canada. The day I can no longer show that, what's next? Judge suggests prop cigarettes as alternative In his decision, Couture rejected from the outset the idea that smoking in itself is an act of artistic expression. All human activity does not necessarily contain expressive content, that is to say that it does not always carry a message, and therefore some activities are purely physical, Couture said. He said there were alternatives available to theatres that could allow them to simulate the act of smoking without breaking Quebec public health rules, which prohibit projecting or inhaling smoke from a tobacco product in a public place. Couture suggested 'props, devices or special effects. He noted that theatrical performances often simulate illegal acts without actually engaging in them, including murder, using a weapon, consuming drugs or using violence. Nothing in the legislation in question prevents the exercise of artistic freedoms or to be able to deliver the soul of a theatrical performance, Couture said. Theatres say realism matters Olivier said that in the case of the play that was being performed at her theatre at the time of the fine, real smoking was an important part of the narrative. It was a character who'd quit smoking, and then started up again. That showed the extent to which this character had broken down, Olivier said. Gourdeau agreed that realism is crucial. At a certain point, when you are at the theatre, you are led to believe in the improbable, he said. If you pull out a fake cigarette that glows red on the end and you don't light it, you stop believing it. At Gourdeau's theatre, a character in a play called Conversations avec mon pénis smoked the sage cigarette while having an argument with a woman in a giant penis suit. Gourdeau told CBC's As It Happens in 2018 (new window) it was a very good play about the male condition. The 'fourth wall' I'm quite surprised — I would even say shocked — by this decision, said Louis-Philippe Lampron, the lawyer for the theatres, in an interview. Lampron said the Charter of Rights and Freedoms gives artists a lot of leeway as to what they can depict, and that judges must consider the artistic aims of a project when ruling on questions of freedom of expression. It depends on the intention of the person who is speaking or who is producing some artistic material, Lampron argued. Gourdeau agreed, saying a theatrical performance is a unique environment. The stage is a private place as long as an actor does not invite a spectator to step on it. We're talking about the fourth wall, he said. The theatres said they would take time to consider their next move, but Olivier said an appeal was likely. It's certain we're not going to leave it here. To defend the principle, we're going to have to fight, she said. Steve Rukavina (new window) · CBC News  Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021