Some western Quebec elementary students can get COVID-19 vaccine at school clinics | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Some western Quebec elementary students can get COVID-19 vaccine at school clinics | CBC News Loaded Ottawa Some western Quebec elementary students can get COVID-19 vaccine at school clinics Some schools in western Quebec will host vaccination clinics as part of the provincewide effort to provide at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to every child between the ages of five and 11 before the winter holiday. Social Sharing Outaouais health authority says detailed plan for children as young as 5 coming next week Matthew Kupfer · CBC News · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 20 Health Canada approved the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for elementary school-aged children on Friday was doses expected to arrive in Canada on Sunday night into Monday. (Ted S. Warren/The Associated Press) comments Some schools in western Quebec will host vaccination clinics as part of the provincewide effort to provide at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to every child between the ages of five and 11 before the winter holiday. The Western Quebec School Board says it has been planning for Health Canada's approval of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for younger children for months, along with the two local health authorities in its catchment area. Quebec health minister wants one dose of vaccine per child by Christmas Director General Mike Dubeau said the English-language board hopes school clinics will help get the vaccine into all areas of its catchment area, which is twice the size of Nova Scotia. "We do have some remote, rural schools so having the vaccination centres right in the school is ideal," Dubeau said. Some schools in the Western Quebec School Board will host vaccine clinics, which will help serve rural areas where it's harder to get to community clinics. (CBC) Dubeau said schools will get their doses a couple of weeks after centralized clinics are made available so parents can register and take their children there in person. "We're not anticipating that 100 per cent of our students will be vaccinated in school, but we are prepared," he said. Teachers to accompany students Dubeau said there will be dedicated areas in the school's gyms for public health nurses to administer doses and monitor recovery while staff accompany and comfort students. Suzanne Tremblay, president of the Syndicat de l'enseignement de l'Outaouais, said there will also be situations where school staff will bring students to public health vaccination centres such as Gatineau's Palais de congres. Take a tour of a public COVID-19 vaccination site in Gatineau 9 months ago 0:47The west Quebec health authority has turned the Palais des Congrès de Gatineau into a vaccination site, one that is eventually expected to operate seven days a week, though the opening date will depend on vaccine supply. 0:47 During the high school vaccination campaign, parents accompanied their children to vaccination centres in most cases, Tremblay said. "We think in elementary school, there will also be a lot of parents who want to be with their children for vaccinations," she said in French. Tremblay said once younger children are vaccinated at a similar proportion to high school students, fewer classes wil be closed and some health measures such as mask-wearing will be relaxed leading to better in-class learning.  Details to come next week, CISSSO says The Centre intégré de santé et de services sociaux de l'Outaouais (CISSSO) said it will provide details on the vaccine rollout next week after the Quebec Immunization Committee provides approval. Dr. Brigitte Pinard, the director of public health for the authority, said in the meantime educational resources will be made available to parents to help guide them in their decisions. "For the next coming days, I think it's very important that parents become informed about the access, but also about the reasons why we want to vaccinate the children," Pinard said. WATCH: Dr. Brigitte Pinard on 'friendly' setting for vaccinating children: Outaouais working on offering ‘friendly’ setting for vaccinating children against COVID-19 1 day ago 0:43Dr. Brigitte Pinard, director of public health for CISSSO, says preparations are underway to offer the COVID-19 vaccine to children aged five to 11. 0:43 More than 40 per cent of recent cases of COVID-19 have been children in the age range of five to 11 and all five current outbreaks in Outaouais schools are elementary schools, Pinard said. She said 76 per cent of youth, age 12 to 17, are fully vaccinated and that has greatly reduced the number of cases and outbreaks in high schools during the fourth wave.   She said nurses within the Outaouais with experience providing immunization for children will also make the process easier for families. "There's some efforts being made to make the setting as friendly as possible," Pinard said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories COVID-19 vaccines for children will start arriving Sunday, government says Quebec vaccine plan for young children to involve schools, vaccination centres, minister says CBC Kids News COVID-19 vaccine approved for kids ages 5-11: ?Here's what you need to know Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now