Stephanie Matteis | CBC Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Stephanie Matteis | CBC Loaded Stephanie Matteis Stephanie Matteis is a senior reporter with CBC News, filing stories for television, radio & online. She's a pathological truthteller and storytelling junkie whose work appears on CBC Toronto, The National and Marketplace. Contact Stephanie: stephanie.matteis@cbc.ca and @CBCsteph on Twitter. Latest from Stephanie Matteis MARKETPLACE 5 out of 6 winter boots fail slip test on ice, Marketplace finds Marketplace looked at popular brands for sale in Canada — Merrell, Sorel, Kamik, Ugg, Timberland and WindRiver — to see how some of these companies’ winter boots would fare on a wet, icy surface.  Canada |2 hours ago Marketplace Experts warn of high levels of chemicals in clothes by some fast-fashion retailers A Marketplace investigation found that out of 38 samples of children’s, adult’s and maternity clothes and accessories, almost one in five items had elevated levels of chemicals — including lead, PFAS and phthalates — that experts found concerning.  Business |October 1 Marketplace Bothered by headlight glare and thinking of getting tinted windows? You'll want to watch this first Marketplace tested whether tinted vehicle windows and bright headlights are making our roads more dangerous by affecting driver visibility. Not all tints are legal, and some drivers said they're knowingly breaking the law to deal with headlight glare. Our experts test those headlights, and find a simple fix. Canada |March 13 Marketplace Which smartphone, laptop and tablet brands break down the most? We asked over 3,000 Canadians to find out A CBC Marketplace survey that asked more than 3,200 Canadians about smartphone, laptop and tablet breakdowns and repairs revealed that an overwhelming majority of them are dealing with broken technology that is too difficult or too expensive to repair. Canada |January 11 Marketplace Provinces promised crackdown on pandemic price gouging. In fact, there have been few repercussions Remember all that tough talk from premiers about cracking down on price gouging during the coronavirus pandemic? CBC’s Marketplace has learned there has been little legal action despite thousands of complaints across Canada. Canada |November 21, 2020 MARKETPLACE Supermarkets limit product quantities all the time. Why didn't they do so at start of pandemic? The COVID-19 pandemic has seen Canadians across the country stocking up on supplies in anticipation of weeks of social isolation. But companies' public assurances that their suppliers won't run out of product aren't doing much to make essential items consistently available. Business |March 21, 2020 How GTA health centres are trying to protect moms, newborns from COVID-19 Mount Sinai, the Toronto Birth Centre, the William Osler Health System and Michael Garron Hospital have put in strict new measures in delivery units to reduce the risk of spreading the novel coronavirus. Canada -Toronto |March 18, 2020 2 phones, 1 number: How a telecommunications mix-up affected strangers' lives A man and a woman who don't know each other say their privacy has been breached after a mix-up at a telecommunications company left them with the same phone number. Canada -Toronto |October 25, 2019 Long-term cannabis use might cause higher anxiety, stress in youths, study suggests Long-term cannabis use could be elevating stress and anxiety levels in young adults, according to a new study by Toronto's Centre for Addiction and Mental Health published Wednesday in the psychiatric journal JAMA. Canada -Toronto |September 18, 2019 $50K Toronto police reward for tips on three-year-old homicide set to expire With the three-year anniversary of Kiesingar Gunn's homicide approaching on September 11, Toronto Police are short on leads and the $50,000 reward for tips will soon expire. Canada -Toronto |August 21, 2019Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now