Survivors recount chaotic Travis Scott concert as investigators probe 8 deaths in Houston | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Survivors recount chaotic Travis Scott concert as investigators probe 8 deaths in Houston | CBC News Loaded World Survivors recount chaotic Travis Scott concert as investigators probe 8 deaths in Houston Investigators on Sunday worked to determine how eight people died in a crush of fans at a Houston music festival, as concertgoers recounted the horror and confusion of being trapped in the crowd and mourned the dead. Social Sharing Astroworld crowd had rushed stage, squeezing people so tightly they couldn't breathe The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 07, 2021 1:38 AM ET | Last Updated: November 8 Concertgoers watch Travis Scott perform at the Astroworld music festival at NRG Park in Houston on Friday. (Jamaal Ellis/Houston Chronicle/The Associated Press) comments Investigators on Sunday worked to determine how eight people died in a crush of fans at a Houston music festival, as concertgoers recounted the horror and confusion of being trapped in the crowd and mourned the dead. Authorities planned to use videos, witness interviews and a review of concert procedures to figure out what went wrong on Friday night during a performance by rapper Travis Scott. The tragedy unfolded when the crowd rushed the stage, squeezing people so tightly they couldn't breathe. Billy Nasser, 24, who had travelled from Indianapolis to attend the concert, said about 15 minutes into Scott's set, things got "really crazy" and people began crushing one another. He said he "was picking people up and trying to drag them out." Nasser said he found a concertgoer on the ground. "I picked him up. People were stepping on him. People were like stomping, and I picked his head up and I looked at his eyes, and his eyes were just white, rolled back to the back of his head," he said. Authorities planned to use videos, witness interviews and a review of concert procedures to figure out what went wrong Friday night during a performance by rapper Travis Scott. The tragedy unfolded when the crowd rushed the stage, squeezing people so tightly they couldn't breathe. (@Tre5pix/Twitter/Reuters) Over the weekend, a makeshift memorial of flowers, votive candles, condolence notes and T-shirts, including a Scott shirt, took shape outside NRG Park. Michael Suarez, 26, came to the growing memorial after attending the concert. Teen dancer, engineering student among those killed at Travis Scott concert "It's very devastating. No one wants to see or hear people dying at a festival," Suarez said. "We were here to have a good time — a great time — and it's devastating to hear someone lost their lives." The dead, according to friends and family members, included a 14-year-old high school student; a 16-year-old girl who loved dancing; and a 21-year-old engineering student at the University of Dayton. The youngest was 14, the oldest 27. Houston officials did not immediately release the victims' names or the cause of death. Thirteen people remained hospitalized on Sunday. Their conditions were not disclosed. More than 300 people were treated at a field hospital at the concert. Questions over security, stage design City officials said they were in the early stages of investigating what caused the pandemonium at the sold-out Astroworld music festival, an event founded by Scott. About 50,000 people were there. Authorities said that among other things, they will look at how the area around the stage was designed. Julio Patino, of Naperville, Ill., was in London on business when he got a middle-of-the-night call informing him his 21-year-old son Franco was dead. He said he had a lot of questions about what happened. People embrace at a memorial for victims in Houston on Sunday. (Robert Bumsted/The Associated Press) "These concerts should be controlled," Patino said. "If they don't know how to do that, they should have cancelled the concert right then, when they noticed there was an overcrowd." He added: "They should not wait until they see people laying down on the floor, lifeless." Steven Adelman, vice-president of the industry group Event Safety Alliance — which was formed after the collapse of a stage at the Indiana State Fair in 2011 killed seven people — helped write industry guidelines widely used today. An empty Astroworld stage is seen in Houston on Sunday. (Nathan Frandino/Reuters) He said investigators will examine the design of the safety barriers and whether they correctly directed crowds or contributed to the crush of spectators. He also said that authorities will look at whether something incited the crowd besides Scott taking the stage. Adelman said another question is whether there were enough security staffers there, noting there is a countrywide shortage of people willing to take low-wage, part-time security gigs. "Security obviously was unable to stop people. Optically, that's really bad-looking," he said. "But as for what it tells us, it's too early to say." Concertgoers are seen rushing into the VIP area prior to Scott's performance on Friday night. (Amy Harris/Invision/The Associated Press) Contemporary Services Corp., headquartered in Los Angeles, was responsible for security staff at the festival, according to county records in Texas. Representatives for the company — which advertises online as being "recognized worldwide as the pioneer, expert and only employee-owned company in the crowd management field" — did not immediately respond to emails and phone messages seeking comment. Houston police and fire department officials said their investigation will include reviewing video taken by concert promoter Live Nation, as well as dozens of clips from people at the show. Officials also planned to review the event's security plan and various permits issued to organizers to see whether they were properly followed during the event. In addition, investigators planned to speak with Live Nation representatives, Scott and people who were at the concert. 'You couldn't even lift up your arms' Izabella Ramirez of Texas City was celebrating her 21st birthday and said that once Scott came on stage, no one could move. "Everybody was squishing in and people were trying to move themselves to the front. You couldn't even lift up your arms," she said. Ramirez said a security guard pulled her over the barricade, while her date, Jason Rodriguez, lifted her up. People place flowers at a memorial for victims in Houston on Sunday. (Robert Bumsted/The Associated Press) "Everyone was yelling for different things. They were either yelling for Travis or they were yelling for help," Rodriguez said. On video posted to social media, Scott could be seen stopping the concert at one point and asking for aid for someone in the audience: "Security, somebody help real quick." There is a long history of similar catastrophes at concerts, sporting events and even religious events. In 1979, 11 people were killed as thousands of fans tried to get into Cincinnati's Riverfront Coliseum to see a concert by The Who. Other past crowd catastrophes include the deaths of 97 people at a soccer match in Hillsborough Stadium in 1989 in Sheffield, England, and numerous disasters connected with the annual hajj pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia. At least 8 dead after crowd surge causes pandemonium at Astroworld music festival British PM apologizes for 1989 soccer stadium tragedy Experts who have studied deaths caused by crowd surges say they are often a result of too many people packed into too small a space. Also Sunday, at least two of the first of many expected lawsuits were filed on behalf of those injured in state court in Houston. Attorneys for Manuel Souza sued Scott, Live Nation and others, saying they were responsible. Another lawsuit was filed on behalf of Noah Gutierrez by Ben Crump, a civil rights lawyer who has represented the families of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and other Black people killed by police. In a tweet posted Saturday, Scott said he was "absolutely devastated by what took place." He pledged to work "together with the Houston community to heal and support the families in need." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now