Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal | CBC Sports Loaded Tennis Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal Chinese authorities seem to have squelched virtually all online discussion of sexual assault accusations apparently made by a Chinese professional tennis star against a former top government official. Social Sharing Accusation from one of China's biggest sporting stars came in since-deleted social media post The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 04, 2021 8:42 AM ET | Last Updated: November 4 Former top Chinese Communist Party official Zhang Gaoli is shown at a meeting of the China Development Forum in Beijing in 2015. (Jason Lee/Reuters) Chinese authorities seem to have squelched virtually all online discussion of sexual assault accusations apparently made by a Chinese professional tennis star against a former top government official. In a lengthy social media post that disappeared quickly, Peng Shuai wrote that Zhang Gaoli, a former vice premier and member of the party's all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee, had forced her to have sex despite repeated refusals following a round of tennis three years ago. Her post also said they had sex once seven years ago, and that she had feelings for him after that. Peng is a former top-ranked doubles player, taking 23 tour-level doubles titles, including Grand Slams at Wimbledon in 2013 and the French Open in 2014. The Associated Press could not verify the authenticity of her post, which was made late Tuesday night on her verified account on Weibo, a leading Chinese social media platform. The post was removed soon after, and a search on Weibo for Peng's account now turns up no results. Neither she nor Zhang could be reached for comment. Chinese Canadian pop star, Kris Wu, dumped by brands over sexual assault allegations Chinese billionaire arrested in Minneapolis in sexual misconduct case The accusation is the first against a prominent government official since the #MeToo movement took hold in China in 2018 before being largely tamped down by authorities the same year. Earlier accusations were confined to parts of the media, advocacy groups and academia. While social media has become ubiquitous in China, it remains firmly under party control. 'I was so frightened that afternoon' Screenshots of the post have circulated on Twitter, which is blocked in China, reinvigorating discussion on that platform about gender relations in China, where men dominate the top levels in politics and business. Peng Shuai of China is shown at right in a 2017 photo, shaking hands with Canada's Eugenie Bouchard after a match. (AFP via Getty Images) In the post, Peng, 35, wrote that Zhang, now 75, and his wife arranged to play tennis in Beijing about three years ago, and that he later brought Peng into a room at his home where the assault occurred. "I was so frightened that afternoon, never thinking that this thing could happen," the post says. Rumours and overseas reports about affairs between younger women and leading officials have long been staples of Chinese politics, starting with the founder of the People's Republic, Mao Zedong. Cases brought against present and former officials under party leader and President Xi Jinping's decade-long anti-corruption campaign also frequently feature accusations of "lascivious lifestyles," along with bribery and abusing their positions. Zhang retired in 2018 and has largely disappeared from public life, as is usual with former Chinese officials. LISTEN | Chinese-Canadian pop superstar Kris Wu accused of predatory sexual behaviour: Front Burner18:35Kris Wu and China’s #MeToo momentChinese-Canadian pop superstar Kris Wu is caught in a #MeToo firestorm over allegations of predatory sexual behaviour with an underage girl now sweeping Chinese media. 18:35 Peng hasn't played in the top tier since the Qatar Open in February 2020. In singles, she reached the semifinals of the 2014 U.S. Open and the Round of 16 at the subsequent Australian Open, but hasn't progressed beyond the third round at any major since Wimbledon in 2017. The Communist Party has increasingly cracked down on civil society, including the #MeToo movement that has struggled to gain traction in the country. Zhou Xiaoxuan, a former intern at Chinese state broadcaster CCTV, was shoved by bystanders in September as she went to court in a case against a well-known presenter. Since then, the movement has been largely shut down by authorities, as activists found their online posts censored and faced pressure from authorities when trying to hold protests. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now