The Weeknd's collab with EDM icons Swedish House Mafia, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week | CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More The Weeknd's collab with EDM icons Swedish House Mafia, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week | CBC Music Loaded Music The Weeknd's collab with EDM icons Swedish House Mafia, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week Fresh Canadian tracks to add to your playlist right now. Social Sharing Fresh Canadian tracks to add to your playlist right now CBC Music · CBC Music · Posted: Oct 27, 2021 10:00 AM ET | Last Updated: October 27 The Weeknd continues his experimentation with electronic music with help from Swedish House Mafia. (Alexander Wessely) Here at CBC Music, we're always on high alert for the best new songs by Canadian artists. This week, we're listening to new tracks from: The Weeknd and Swedish House Mafia. U.S. Girls featuring Glenn Gould. Beatrice Deer. Kalisway. Majid Jordan featuring Swae Lee.  Scroll down to find out why you should listen, too. What new Canadian tunes are you currently obsessed with? Share them with us on Twitter @CBCMusic. Hit play on our Songs You Need to Hear stream, filled with songs that CBC Music's producers have chosen for their playlists, and tune into CBC Music Mornings every Thursday to hear CBC Music's Jess Huddleston and Saroja Coelho reveal which of these tracks is the standout new Canadian song. 'Moth to a Flame,' The Weeknd and Swedish House Mafia  Some of the Weeknd's best work recently has revolved around his growing experimentation with '80s synth and electronic soundscapes. It's what made the Toronto R&B artist's 2020 album, After Hours, such a massive success, and it has continued to seep into his new output, first on "Take my Breath" and now on his latest collaboration with electronic trio Swedish House Mafia. "Moth to a Flame" is off Swedish House Mafia's upcoming album, Paradise Again, and finds the Weeknd crooning about a complicated romance atop a propulsive beat. "But does he know you call me when he sleeps?" he sings in lockstep with the song's shimmering keys. Just like the song's conflicted subject, we can't help but be drawn to everything the Weeknd touches nowadays, like a moth to a flame — or in this case, to yet another fiery hot single by one of pop's biggest stars. — Melody Lau  'Good Kinda High,' U.S. Girls feat. Glenn Gould Wait, what? A collaboration between indie pop outfit U.S. Girls (Meg Remy) and the late, great classical pianist Glenn Gould? Strange but true, "Good Kinda High" is the latest instalment in Uninvited Guests, a 19-track project from producer Billy Wild and his collective, Division 88. On it, a whole range of musicians use Gould's recordings as the basis for new and often surprising recontextualizations. "I like to imagine Gould and I as two freaks on the same leash," says Remy via press release, referring to Gould's enduring reputation as an iconoclast. Her take on his music is a slinky pop song with a walking bassline and decidedly eerie, E minor vibe, punctuated with skittish snippets of Gould's piano. Accordingly, the video, directed by Wild, intersperses clips of Gould with scenes from Cold War-era reels and vintage horror movies, just in time for Halloween. — Robert Rowat 'History,' Beatrice Deer Beatrice Deer is back with her first single in three years and an album announcement: her fifth full-length, Shifting, will arrive Dec. 10. It's fitting that the Inuk-Mohawk singer-songwriter, who coined the term "Inuindie" to classify her music, chose "History" as her first single, a straightforward indie-rock song that compels you to "leave the past behind" before shifting closer to where you're meant to be. "Time to trust yourself/ you have to trust yourself/ will you trust yourself?" Deer sings, circling that final question in the chorus. "Emotionally, spiritually and physically, the transition toward our authentic selves continues," Deer detailed in a statement, revealing her focus for the record. "As I shift into the position where I'm meant to be, I want to keep using what I've learned to help others." The bouncy guitar riff that kicks off the song keeps things light and questioning, before an electric guitar solo and a cathartic buildup of sound in the latter half feels more akin to an inner reckoning. After all, you do have to deal with your history in order to move forward. — Holly Gordon 'Hit 'em With the Funk,' Kalisway Toronto singer Kalisway is a newcomer whose distinct fusion of funk, R&B and psychedelia is unlike anything else coming out of the city right now. She released her first single, "Cherry," in 2020 and hasn't slowed down since, releasing two undeniably groovy EPs and even getting a co-sign from the Gorillaz. As the temperature dips, it's integral to have some sure-fire heaters in your arsenal, which is why I suggest adding "Hit 'em With the Funk" to your rotation immediately. Kalisway wants you to come for the ride as she takes you on a sonic tour of the genre — electric bass, soulful horns and all. She has listed the likes of Bootsy Collins, Prince, Parliament and Chaka Khan as inspirations and you can hear their influence all over this track. Her reverence for funk is clear but there's a singularity to what she's doing that makes this song feel brand new. Kalisway plays with her voice in inventive ways, flitting from a cartoon-like falsetto to a lower register that's rich like molasses. The rhythmic bassline and emphasis on the downbeat hits your ears instantly and I imagine myself driving slowly in a vintage Camaro with the windows down far away from the doldrums of winter. — Kelsey Adams 'Dancing on a Dream,' Majid Jordan feat. Swae Lee Like most things Majid Jordan does, it's hard to resist the gravitational pull of their OVO Sound affiliate and boss, Drake. So it made sense that most people's attention immediately went to Drake's feature on the Toronto R&B duo's latest album, Wildest Dreams. But that unfortunately takes the attention away from the arguably better guest appearances on the album such as Diddy or Rae Sremmurd's Swae Lee. The latter contributes to the dynamic album opener, "Dancing on a Dream," a grooving slow jam that perfectly pairs singer Majid Al Maskati and Lee's voices together into a euphoric blend. By the time they both reach the energetic burst on its chorus, where they list off ways they've been swept off their feet by a partner, listeners are on Cloud 9 with them, feeling that same head rush of ecstasy that they're singing about. It's a high note to start the album on, and one that you shouldn't skip over. — Melody Lau Related Stories Lennon Stella's standout dance track, and 4 more songs you need to hear this week 'Betrayed' by opera, this gender non-binary singer finds their own career path Inside the mysterious world of Canadian chillhop Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now