The true story of Canada's reggae capital | CBC Music Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch music music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE The Intro More The true story of Canada's reggae capital | CBC Music Loaded Music The true story of Canada's reggae capital In the '60s and '70s, Toronto's Little Jamaica was the 2nd largest producer of reggae music in the world, next only to Kingston, Jamaica. Social Sharing Toronto's Little Jamaica was the 2nd largest producer of reggae music in the world CBC Music · CBC Music · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 9:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 18 The true story of Canada's reggae capital 3 days ago 7:46Little Jamaica, as the neighbourhood is known, was the second largest producer of reggae music in the world, next only to Kingston, Jamaica. 7:46 comments There's a neighbourhood in Toronto that stretches along Eglinton Ave, just north of the downtown core. For years, it's been buried under construction as the city builds the Crosstown LRT, but behind all that is a rich musical history that's now endangered. Little Jamaica, as the neighbourhood is known, became the second largest producer of reggae music in the world, next only to Kingston, Jamaica. In the 1960s and '70s, Jamaicans moving to Toronto helped to create a vibrant music industry, complete with clubs, record shops, recording studios, all with a connection to Jamaica. Artists like Jackie Mittoo and Leroy Sibbles recorded their music there, and the famous reggae group Black Uhuru immortalized the strip with their song "Youth of Eglinton."  To learn more about Little Jamaica and the true story of Canada's reggae capital, hit play on the video above. For more stories about the experiences of Black Canadians — from anti-Black racism to success stories within the Black community — check out Being Black in Canada, a CBC project Black Canadians can be proud of. You can read more stories here. (CBC) Related Stories AGO department marks 1st year with exhibition that explores Caribbean history A British sound, recast in Canada's image: the history of Toronto's jungle music scene 'Big Canadian reggae lion' Jo Jo Bennett dies at 81 Canadian hip-hop legend Michie Mee writing memoir to be published in 2023 Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now