Thomas King publishing his first graphic novel — get a sneak peek now | CBC Books Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch books CBC Literary Prizes Canada Reads Canada Writes Reading Lists This Place Contact Us More Thomas King publishing his first graphic novel — get a sneak peek now | CBC Books Loaded Books·First Look Thomas King publishing his first graphic novel — get a sneak peek now Borders was illustrated by Natasha Donovan and will be available on Sept. 7, 2021. Social Sharing Borders was illustrated by Natasha Donovan and will be available on Sept. 7, 2021 CBC Books · Posted: May 05, 2021 9:43 AM ET | Last Updated: May 6 Borders is a graphic novel by Thomas King, illustrated by Natasha Donovan. (CBC, HarperCollins) Acclaimed writer Thomas King is publishing his first graphic novel. Borders was originally a short story written in 1993. It's about a boy and his mother who try to take a road trip from Alberta to Salt Lake City. When they reach the American Canadian border, they identify as Blackfoot, and not Canadian or American — causing problems and putting the pair in limbo between the two countries. What unfolds is a powerful story about justice, identity and belonging. Borders was adapted into a graphic novel by Natasha Donovan. It will be published on Sept. 7, 2021.  "Natasha's illustrations bring the story to light in a new and engaging way," King told CBC Books via email. King is a Canadian American writer of Cherokee and Greek ancestry who is regarded as one of the most influential Indigenous writers and scholars of his generation.  King was the first Indigenous person to deliver a CBC Massey Lecture in 2003. His bestselling books include Truth & Bright Water, The Inconvenient Indian, Green Grass, Running Water, The Back of the Turtle and the DreadfulWater mystery series. He's also written a poetry collection, 77 Fragments of a Familiar Ruin. Thomas King is hopeful that his writing has changed the world — but he's still not sure Indians on Vacation is currently on the shortlist for the Stephen Leacock Memorial Medal for Humour and the Governor General's Literary Award for fiction. It was shortlisted for the 2020 Writers' Trust Fiction Prize and longlisted for the 2020 Scotiabank Giller Prize. Unreserved40:13An extended conversation with celebrated author Thomas KingRecorded at Montreal's Blue Metropolis International Literary Festival, Thomas King joins Rosanna Deerchild on stage in this extended conversation about writing, research and Indigenous humour. 40:13 Donovan is a Métis illustrator originally from Vancouver. She has illustrated several graphic novels, including the Surviving the City series by Tasha Spillet and Brett Huson's animal series, which includes The Sockeye Mother, The Grizzly Mother and The Eagle Mother. She also illustrated the cover for The Ghost Collector by Allison Mills and her work appears in the anthology This Place: 150 Years Retold. Borders is a story she has known for a long time, and has connected to personally as her partner is American and currently trying to navigate the same system. "I've been passionate about this story since I first read it in high school. It's funny and tender, in that quintessential Thomas King way, and it gracefully balances the absurdity and the heartbreak of arbitrarily imposed divisions," Donovan told CBC Books via email. "While working on Borders, my American spouse and I were also getting to know the weird, frustrating world of immigration — in fact, the book is now finished, but my case is still unresolved. Working on this project in such a surprisingly relevant time was a huge privilege, and often a comfort. I have grown to love these characters immensely, and they have provided me with a lot of hope and happiness." You can see an excerpt from Borders below. An interior spread from Borders, a graphic novel by Thomas King and illustrated by Natasha Donovan. (HarperCollins) An interior spread from Borders, a graphic novel by Thomas King and illustrated by Natasha Donovan. (HarperCollins) An interior spread from Borders, a graphic novel by Thomas King and illustrated by Natasha Donovan. (HarperCollins) An interior spread from Borders, a graphic novel by Thomas King and illustrated by Natasha Donovan. (HarperCollins) An interior spread from Borders, a graphic novel by Thomas King and illustrated by Natasha Donovan. (HarperCollins) An interior spread from Borders, a graphic novel by Thomas King and illustrated by Natasha Donovan. (HarperCollins) Corrections An earlier version of this story said Borders was going to be published n Oct. 12, 2021. The pub date has since been moved to Sept. 7, 2021. May 05, 2021 3:38 PM ET Related Stories Here are 70 Canadian short stories available free online The best Canadian books of 2020 Transmission: An original writing series from CBC Books reflecting on life during COVID-19 Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now