Toronto ice dancers Gilles, Poirier finish 2nd at Grand Prix in France | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Toronto ice dancers Gilles, Poirier finish 2nd at Grand Prix in France | CBC Sports Loaded Figure Skating Toronto ice dancers Gilles, Poirier finish 2nd at Grand Prix in France Canada's Piper Gilles and Paul Poirier were unable to overtake reigning world champions Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron of France in Saturday's free dance, placing second at the ISU Grand Prix in Grenoble, France. Social Sharing French duo Gabriella Papadakis, Guillaume Cizeron hang on for victory CBC Sports · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 1:05 PM ET | Last Updated: November 20 Canada's Paul Poirier and Piper Gilles, pictured, scored 121.81 points in their free dance on Saturday to finish second at the ISU Grand Prix in Grenoble, France. Reigning world champions Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron of France topped the medal podium. (Geoff Robins/AFP via Getty Images/File) comments Canada's Piper Gilles and Paul Poirier were unable to overtake reigning world champions Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron of France in Saturday's free dance, placing second at the ISU Grand Prix in Grenoble, France. The Toronto ice dancers scored 121.81 points after amassing 81.35 in Friday's rhythm dance to music by Elton John. ''This week was a success,'' said Poirier. ''We didn't have our strongest rhythm dance, but we felt like the free was really a great improvement. Our scores were lower this week so we are going to have to really listen to the feedback and see what we can to do raised them.'' WATCH | Gilles, Poirier add to early-season success in France: Canada's Gilles and Poirier dance to silver at ISU Grand Prix of France 1 day ago 8:05Toronto's Piper Gilles and Paul Poirier from Unionville, Ont., skated to a silver medal in ice dance at the ISU Grand Prix event in Grenoble, France and also qualified for the ISU Grand Prix Final in Osaka, Japan. 8:05 Papadakis and Cizeron claimed gold with 221.25 points, while Alexandra Stepanova and Ivan Bukin of Russia, who were third after the short program, rounded out the medal podium on Saturday with a total of 200.29. Gilles and Poirier were victorious at their first two international events this season including Skate Canada International in Vancouver last month. WATCH | Papadakis, Cizeron capture gold on home ice: Dance duo Papadakis and Cizeron claim gold on home ice at ISU Grand Prix of France 1 day ago 8:36French duo Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron won ice dance gold in front of a home crowd at the ISU Grand Prix France in Grenoble. 8:36 In the pairs event, fellow Canadians Vanessa James and Eric Radford just missed the podium with a fourth-place finish. The duo finished with 196.34 points for their best score since forming a partnership in April. Russia claimed a 1-2 finish in the event with Aleksandra Boikova and Dmitrii Kozlovskii capturing gold (216.96) ahead of Artemeva and Mikhail Nazarychev (205.15). American duo Alexa Knierim and Brandon Frazier finished third with 201.69 points. WATCH | James, Radford finish 4th pairs event: Canada's James and Radford just miss podium at ISU Grand Prix France 24 hours ago 8:58Former French skater Vanessa James of Toronto and her new partner Eric Radford of Balmertown, Ont., finish fourth following the pairs free program at the ISU Grand Prix event in Grenoble, France. 8:58 Canadian Keegan Messing finished sixth in the men's event with 253.06 points after producing a season-best free skate. The 29-year-old said he is pleased with his progress this season. ''It was a fairly good event for me,'' said Messing. ''After Skate Canada my coach and I took a hard look at the long program and decided to switch things around a little bit… and you know what I think we have a system that will work for the rest of the season.'' WATCH | Messing skates to 6th-place finish in men's event: Canada's Keegan Messing finishes 6th at ISU Grand Prix of France 1 day ago 8:17Canadian Keegan Messing couldn't improve on his short program finish, ending the ISU Grand Prix event in Grenoble, France in sixth place. 8:17 Japan's Yuma Kagiyama captured gold in the men's event (286.41), while compatriot Shun Sato finished second with 264.99 points. Jason Brown of the U.S. won bronze with a total of 264.20. In the women's event, reigning world champion Anna Shcherbakova led Russia to a 1-2 finish by capturing gold ahead of Alena Kostornaia. Japan's Wakaba Higuchi claimed bronze to prevent the Russian medal sweep. WATCH | Shcherbakova finishes 1st in women's short program: Anna Shcherbakova wins Grand Prix of France free skate title 1 day ago 8:25Russia's Anna Shcherbakova finished first in the ISU Grand Prix women's free skate program from Grenoble, France. 8:25 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Skate Canada event provides Canadian high performance director with 'good takeaways' Toronto ice dancers Piper Gilles, Paul Poirier win Autumn Classic International Shoma Uno captures gold on home ice at NHK Trophy as Vincent Zhou finishes 2nd Fournier Beaudry, Sorensen capture ice dance silver medal at Cup of Austria More figure skating coverage Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now