Track how many people have been given the COVID-19 vaccine across Canada | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Track how many people have been given the COVID-19 vaccine across Canada | CBC News Loaded Canada Track how many people have been given the COVID-19 vaccine across Canada The tables and graphs refresh automatically, live, as CBC News regularly updates offline spreadsheets. The "last updated" time stamp on this story reflects when the story text has changed, not every time the numbers are updated. Check back for regular updates throughout the day. Social Sharing The tables and graphs refresh automatically, live, as CBC News updates with the latest information CBC · Posted: Jan 12, 2021 7:10 PM ET | Last Updated: 9 hours ago CBC News is tracking the data so you can follow the progress as vaccines are rolled out across the country. CBC's vaccine data comes from provincial and territorial websites, news briefings and releases and the Public Health Agency of Canada.  How many people have been vaccinated?     Vaccinations around the world Here's the background on Canada's vaccination rollout The first shipment of vaccine doses arrived in Quebec on Dec. 13, and Canada's vaccination program formally began soon after with the first vaccinations in Ontario and Quebec. According to the Public Health Agency of Canada, the country has secured contracts with Pfizer-BioNTech for up to 76 million vaccine doses; Moderna for 44 million; AstraZeneca for 20 million; Verity Pharmaceuticals Canada Inc./Serum Institute of India (in collaboration with AstraZeneca Canada Inc.) for two million; and Johnson & Johnson for up to 38 million doses. While the federal government is responsible for distributing vaccines to each jurisdiction across the country, each province and territory is responsible for its own vaccine rollout.  Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has promised that every Canadian who wants a shot would be vaccinated by the end of September. Which vaccines have been approved so far? Health Canada announced the approval of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine on Dec. 9, 2020. On Dec. 23, it approved a second vaccine, from Moderna.  On Feb. 26, 2021, Health Canada approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 vaccine.  On March 5, 2021, Johnson & Johnson's COVID-19 vaccine became the first single-dose vaccine approved for use in Canada.  Health Canada authorized the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for children 12-15 years old on May 5, 2021.  Notes: June 22: A table was added and the Canada map updated to show the percentage of eligible people, 12 and up, who have received at least one dose or been fully vaccinated. May 20: The Canada map was updated to show first and second dose numbers for the provinces and territories. Quebec's second dose vaccine numbers were added. The chart on vaccine doses distributed now also includes the percentage of doses used and the story text was updated to include additional information on Canada's vaccine rollout.  March 26: The page was updated to include the percentage of people in Canada given at least one dose. A map and table showing global vaccinations was also added. Jan. 28: Officials in Ontario announced an error in their previous reporting of completed vaccinations. This resulted in the number of people completely vaccinated in the province decreasing by about half. Jan. 14: Separate totals of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccine doses distributed to each province were removed. This data is currently only available weekly, with many provinces and territories not providing breakdowns in their updates. This caused the numbers to not align with the combined totals distributed to the provinces and territories, which are updated more frequently. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 5 graphs that help tell the story of the pandemic INTERACTIVE Coronavirus tracker: The cases, hospitalizations and vaccinations in your area Canadians shouldn't shop around for vaccines with higher efficacy rates, experts say Here's what we know about COVID-19 vaccines and children Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now