Travel - CBC Life Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch life CBC Life Shows Food Style Home Wellness Culture Work & Money Pets Giveaways & Submissions Video Currently Selected: Travel More Travel - CBC Life Loaded Travel - CBC Life Featured Content CBC TV Trek through the country as we highlight the filming locations that help tell CBC's scripted stories Whether it's the scenic view or its practical use, a convenient location versus a significant one, the backdrop of a television show becomes a character of its own. Travel |November 4 Trails across Canada for city dwellers to walk this winter Nearby hidden gems you maybe didn’t know existed. Jen O’Brien Travel |December 7, 2020| CBC News Getting on a plane today? Here's what you need to know about new vaccination requirements The federal government has announced new exemptions and a grace period for unvaccinated foreign nationals, releasing new details about its vaccine mandate for travellers. Travel |November 3 10 scary movie locations to visit across Canada Take your Halloween movie marathon to the next level with a creepy road trip. Jen O’Brien Travel |October 19| CBC News Confused about proof-of-vaccination requirements for travel? Your questions answered Travel |October 13 A roundup of Canada's most haunted places Clifton Mark Travel |October 18, 2019| Top spots across Canada to take in breathtaking fall foliage Jen O’Brien Travel |September 27, 2019| CBC News Worried your COVID-19 vaccine won't be accepted abroad? Here's what you need to know Travel |July 30 Thinking about RVing? Here's what you need to know to hit the road Joel Balsam Travel |July 24, 2020| 15 road trip games that'll make the drive a highlight of the trip Brittany Toole Travel |July 19| The Doc Project Bean there, done that: Why Albertans build giant roadside attractions Travel |May 19 Photos Dreamiest swimming pools across Canada to cool off in this summer July 29 Photos The most beautiful beaches to visit from coast to coast this summer Travel |July 27 CBC News Business Travelling to or within Canada? The rules have changed. Here's what you need to know Travel |July 19 Photos The coolest trees to hug, climb and admire from all across Canada Travel |July 19 CBC News Business 'Carpocalypse' comes to Canada as rental car shortage worsens Travel |July 15 CBC News Business Fully vaccinated and yearning to travel? Here are the new rules of the road Travel |July 9 Photos Gorgeous waterfalls worth chasing all across our country Samantha White Travel |May 26 CBC News Politics When international travel resumes, Canada's borders and airports will be very different Travel |June 15 CBC News Business Canada is easing its travel restrictions. Here's what you need to know Travel |June 11 How to stick to a smart sleep schedule for baby — while on a group getaway! Alanna McGinn Travel |June 10, 2019| CBC News You may actually be able to travel for summer vacation in Canada this year Travel |May 12 Front Burner The debate over vaccine passports is here Travel |May 11 Hello Spring Halifax company makes camping gear more accessible for outdoor adventure novices Travel |April 15 Kitchener-Waterloo Have reservation bots scooped up Ontario Parks sites this summer? Campers have questions Travel |April 7Load More Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now