Trudeau to push back against protectionist U.S. trade policies at Three Amigos summit | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Politics Trudeau to push back against protectionist U.S. trade policies at Three Amigos summit Ottawa is fighting a proposed incentive that would apply only to American-made electric vehicles Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is expected to raise concerns around trade and pipelines with U.S. President Joe Biden today. Photo: La Presse canadienne / Adrian Wyld RCI Posted: November 18, 2021 2:58 PM Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's brief trip to Washington culminates today with the first Three Amigos summit in more than five years — and signs suggest there could be some tense moments during the long-awaited meeting. The trilateral meeting between the leaders of Canada, the United States and Mexico — officially known as the North American Leaders' Summit — is scheduled to begin at 4:45 p.m. ET at the White House. Summits between the three nations have historically been criticized for favouring symbolism over substance, but this year's edition comes as Canada makes an aggressive push against one of U.S. President Joe Biden's signature protectionist policies. U.S. lawmakers are putting the finishing touches on a nearly $2 trillion US infrastructure bill, which as it stands contains a new electric vehicle incentive that Ottawa says could wreak havoc on Canada's auto sector and violate the new NAFTA. At a tense moment for Canada-U.S. relations, Trudeau travels to D.C. for trilateral talks (new window) ANALYSISThere's a reason Trudeau's Washington visit starts at the Capitol (new window) The proposed incentive would eventually give American buyers a $12,500 US rebate on the purchase of new EVs, but only if the vehicles are produced in the United States. The Canadian government argues that the incentive threatens decades of co-operation between the two nations in the auto sector and could lead to job losses on both sides of the border. Mexico also opposes the plan. EV incentive could become 'dominant' issue: Freeland During a Wednesday evening news conference in Washington, Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland indicated that fighting the EV incentive will remain her government's top priority during its time in Washington. The way they have formulated this incentive really, really has the potential to become the dominant issue in our bilateral relationship, Freeland said. The EV incentives — as they are currently formulated — we are certain are a violation of the new NAFTA agreement. U.S. President Joe Biden was in Detroit on Wednesday test-driving the GMC Hummer EV, an American-made vehicle that would benefit from his proposed tax credit. Photo:  (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters) In private meetings so far this week, Trudeau has also been working to dissuade lawmakers from adopting the plan. According to a source with direct knowledge of the situation, Trudeau has noted that Biden's proposal amounts to a greater penalty to the Canadian auto sector than former president Donald Trump's threat of a 25 per cent tax on Canadian cars. WATCH | Biden's EV tax incentive worries some trade partners: Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? Pipelines and vaccines also on the agenda Trudeau is also expected to raise concerns about the future of the Line 5 pipeline, which transports oil to Eastern Canada. Michigan is trying to shut down a portion of the line that runs under the Great Lakes. Canada wants to keep the pipeline flowing and recently invoked a 1977 treaty in its bid to preserve the status quo. A senior U.S administration official declined to discuss details about Line 5 during a call with reporters on Wednesday, citing the recently invoked treaty.  What I will say is the president and the prime minister have an excellent relationship. They've known each other for a very long time, and we're prepared to discuss anything the prime minister is ready to raise, the official said. There are also expectations that Trudeau and Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador will make an announcement about sharing COVID-19 vaccine doses that were donated by the United States. They plan to share those doses with other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, the senior official said. It will be Trudeau's first in-person meeting with López Obrador, who has been Mexico's president since December 2018. The leaders of North America's largest nations will have gone 1,968 days since their last trilateral meeting. Trump spurned the summit during his presidency. Nick Boisvert (new window) · CBC News with files from J.P. Tasker and Alexander Panetta Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021