U.K. taxi driver calls it a 'miracle' he survived passenger's bomb blast | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More U.K. taxi driver calls it a 'miracle' he survived passenger's bomb blast | CBC News Loaded World U.K. taxi driver calls it a 'miracle' he survived passenger's bomb blast A taxi driver injured when his passenger's homemade bomb exploded in the northwest England city of Liverpool a week ago said Sunday that it's a "miracle" he is alive. Social Sharing Police have called the Nov. 14 explosion outside Liverpool hospital a terrorist act The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 1:45 PM ET | Last Updated: 1 hour ago Taxi driver David Perry, left, and his wife, Rachel, are shown in this undated photo. Perry was injured when his passenger's homemade bomb exploded in the northwest England city of Liverpool on Nov. 14. (Greater Manchester Police/The Associated Press) A taxi driver injured when his passenger's homemade bomb exploded in the northwest England city of Liverpool a week ago said Sunday that it's a "miracle" he is alive. In a message issued through the police, David Perry said he was "so thankful that no one else was injured in such an evil act." British police have called the Nov. 14 explosion a terrorist act and are trying to determine the motive of the bomber, Emad Al Swealmeen, who died in the blast outside Liverpool Women's Hospital. Police say the device contained explosives and ball bearings and could have caused "significant injury or death" if it had gone off under different circumstances. Investigators say Al Swealmeen, who was originally from Iraq and had applied unsuccessfully for asylum in Britain, appears to have acted alone. Still, Britain's official terrorism threat level was raised from substantial to severe — meaning an attack is highly likely — following the blast. WATCH | Liverpool taxi explosion was terrorist attack, U.K. police say:  Liverpool taxi explosion was terrorist attack, U.K. police say 6 days ago 3:29Four men are under arrest after a vehicle explosion outside the Women's Hospital in Liverpool left one person dead and another injured, according to British counterterrorism police. 3:29 Perry managed to get out of the taxi before it was consumed by flames. He was treated for injuries in hospital. In his statement, the driver said he was "overwhelmed" by the good wishes and generosity he had received after the attack. "I now need time to try to come to terms with what's happened and focus on my recovery both mentally and physically," Perry said. "Please be kind, be vigilant and stay safe." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories U.K. counterterrorism police arrest 3 after deadly Liverpool car blast Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now