Urgent dike repairs needed to prevent more flooding in Abbotsford, says mayor | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Urgent dike repairs needed to prevent more flooding in Abbotsford, says mayor | CBC News Loaded British Columbia Urgent dike repairs needed to prevent more flooding in Abbotsford, says mayor With major rain expected next week, critical work is needed on the breached dikes that are allowing water from the Nooksack River in Washington state to flood Sumas Prairie. Social Sharing Water levels in the eastern part of Sumas Prairie continue to rise with more rain expected next week Karin Larsen · CBC News · Posted: Nov 18, 2021 11:30 AM PT | Last Updated: 4 hours ago Cows that were stranded in a flooded barn are rescued in Abbotsford, B.C., on Tuesday. (Jennifer Gauthier/Reuters) comments Conditions in flood-stricken Abbotsford improved marginally Thursday even as rain began falling again, but the mayor says without urgent dike repairs the disastrous conditions of the last few days will return. "We are not out of this by a long shot," said Mayor Henry Braun. "I'm not concerned about today's rain, what I'm concerned about is next week, there's predicted 80 to 100 millimetres." The long-range forecast from Environment Canada shows the rain beginning Monday and falling into Tuesday. Braun said work to fix dike breaches that continue to let floodwater from the Nooksack River in Washington pour into Sumas Prairie will take weeks. While water levels have receded in some parts of Sumas Prairie, it continues to rise in the lowest 60-square-kilometre eastern section, he said, and the four massive pumps at the Barrowtown pump station are not keeping up. WATCH / Officials nervously watch forecast for Fraser Valley More rain expected early next week, Abbotsford, B.C., mayor says 7 hours ago 1:41There is still more water flowing into Sumas Prairie than is being pumped out, says Abbotsford, B.C., Mayor Henry Braun. That's a concern as more rain is expected to fall in the area next week. 1:41 "We're still not pumping anywhere near the amount of water out of the system that is coming into the prairie from across the border," said Braun. "I'm still not sure people understand what's going on there." Braun said Washington state Governor Jay Inslee reached out to him last night and the two men are scheduled to talk today. Estimates from a few years ago pinned the costs of upgrading the aging dike systems at $400 million. Extraordinary kindness and community help British Columbians navigate historic floods Swimmers, waders and looky-loo boaters warned to stay out of toxic floodwaters According to Braun the price tag for fixing all the damaged infrastructure in the town of 120,000 could reach a billion dollars, something he's spoken to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Premier John Horgan about. "They assured me... that they are 100 per cent behind us and they'll provide whatever we need," he said. "I take them all at their word, but I've also prepared them for one big bill at the end of this."  Overnight, 11 more people were rescued using boats and helicopters, said Abbotsford Fire Chief Darren Lee.  Rising flood waters surround barns in Abbotsford, B.C., on Tuesday. (Jonathan Hayward/The Canadian Press) It's estimated 40 residents, most of them farmers, remain on their land in defiance of the Sumas Prairie evacuation order.  Braun said the losses facing the agricultural community are unfathomable. "They're devastated. We are talking in the hundred of millions of dollars, plus," he said.  "These farms are second-, third- and maybe even fourth-generation farmers. They love their cattle, they love their land. And they don't want to move." Critical work continued Thursday to repair water lines in Sumas Prairie. Braun said the major breach that forced the shutdown of the system was under repair and other breaks had been discovered.  The next public update from Abbotsford city officials goes at 4 p.m. PT Thursday. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia Video 'The river just took it under': Family can only watch as flood sweeps away home in Merritt, B.C. Updated Mammoth cleanup to begin in wake of devastating B.C. floods B.C. declares state of emergency in wake of devastating flooding, mudslides Extraordinary kindness and community help British Columbians navigate historic floods Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now