Video, photos of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted online | CBC Sports Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Shows Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports More Video, photos of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted online | CBC Sports Loaded Tennis Video, photos of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted online Missing tennis star Peng Shuai reappeared in public Sunday at a youth tournament in Beijing, according to photos released by the organizer, as the ruling Communist Party tried to quell fears abroad while suppressing information in China about Peng after she accused a senior leader of sexual assault. Social Sharing Peng reportedly reappears at youth tennis tournament in Beijing Joe Mcdonald · The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 20, 2021 4:56 PM ET | Last Updated: November 21 China's Peng Shuai hadn't been seen in public since posting a statement on social media this month accusing a former top government official of sexual assault. (Andy Brownbill/The Associated Press) comments Missing tennis star Peng Shuai reappeared in public Sunday at a youth tournament in Beijing, according to photos released by the organizer, as the ruling Communist Party tried to quell fears abroad while suppressing information in China about Peng after she accused a senior leader of sexual assault. The post by the China Open on the Weibo social media service made no mention of Peng's disappearance or her accusation. Peng was shown standing beside a court, waving and signing oversize commemorative tennis balls for children. The appearance followed an announcement by the editor of a party newspaper Saturday on Twitter, which can't be seen by most internet users in China, that the three-time Olympian would "show up in public" soon. WATCH | UN, White House call on China for proof of Peng's whereabouts: UN, White House call on China to give proof of Peng Shuai's whereabouts 1 day ago 3:57Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai disappeared after accusing a former senior Chinese politician of sexually assaulting her. The tennis world and international diplomatic community are calling for an independent investigation into her whereabouts and well-being. 3:57 The ruling party appears to be trying to defuse alarm about Peng without acknowledging her disappearance after the former Wimbledon and Paris Open champion this month accused Zhang Gaoli, a member of the party's ruling Standing Committee until 2018, of forcing her to have sex. Peng's disappearance and the government's silence in response to appeals for information prompted calls for a boycott of the Winter Olympics in Beijing in February, a prestige event for the Communist Party. The women's professional tour threatened to pull events out of China unless the safety of the former No. 1 doubles player was assured. Discussion of Peng's accusation has been deleted from websites in China. A government spokesperson on Friday denied knowing about the outcry. The ruling party's internet filters also block most people in China from seeing other social media abroad and most global news outlets. Canada's tennis community reacts to missing Chinese player Peng Shuai Comments on Chinese social media on Sunday criticized the Women's Tennis Association and others who spoke up about Peng, while comments in Chinese on Twitter poked fun at the awkward release of photos and video. "When will the WTA get out of China?" said a comment on the Sina Weibo social media service, signed "Sleep Time." WATCH | Peng Shuai missing since raising sexual assault allegations: What we know about the missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai 3 days ago 3:44CBC’s Rob Pizzo is joined by CBC News Senior Correspondent Saša Petricic to discuss the latest on missing Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai and what impact it could have on potential boycott discussions surrounding the Beijing Winter Games. 3:44 Peng adds to a growing number of Chinese businesspeople, activists and ordinary people who have disappeared in recent years after criticizing party figures or in crackdowns on corruption or pro-democracy and labour rights campaigns. Some re-emerge weeks or months later without explanation, suggesting they are warned not to disclose they were detained or the reason. The editor of the party newspaper Global Times, Hu Xijin, wrote Saturday on Twitter that Peng "stayed in her own home freely" and would "show up in public and participate in some activities soon." The English-language Global Times, aimed at foreign readers, is known for its nationalistic tone. Hu uses his Twitter account to criticize foreign governments and point out social and economic problems abroad. A comment on Twitter signed bobzhang999 said, "Hu Dog, with so many photos, why don't you let Peng Shuai talk?" Another, signed Magician, said, "Let Peng Shuai's parents hold a news conference." China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai Tennis stars and the WTA have been unusually vocal in demanding information about Peng. Other companies and sports groups are reluctant to confront Beijing for fear of losing access to the Chinese market or other retaliation. The ruling party has given no indication whether it is investigating Peng's accusation against Gao, 75, who left the Standing Committee in 2018 and has largely disappeared from public life. Even if Peng's accusation is deemed valid, people in China often are jailed or face other penalties for embarrassing the party by publicizing complaints about abuses instead of going through the secretive, often unresponsive official system. The status of star athletes such as Peng is especially sensitive. State media celebrate their victories as proof the party is making China strong. But the party is vigilant about making sure they cannot use their prominence and public appeal to erode its image. 'This video alone is insufficient,' says WTA chair Steve Simon, the WTA's chair and CEO, expressed concern for Peng's safety after Hu posted two videos Saturday that appeared to show her in a restaurant. "While it is positive to see her, it remains unclear if she is free and able to make decisions and take actions on her own, without coercion or external interference. This video alone is insufficient," Simon said. "Our relationship with China is at a crossroads." The International Olympic Committee has remained quiet about the status of Peng, who competed in three Olympics, helping to contribute to the IOC's multimillion-dollar revenue from broadcasting and sponsorships. Emma Terho, the newly elected head of the IOC's Athletes' Commission that is charged with representing the interests of Olympic athletes, said in a statement Saturday "we support the quiet diplomacy" approach favoured by the IOC. Last week, the foreign arm of state TV issued a statement in English attributed to Peng that retracted her accusation against Zhang. The WTA's Simon questioned its legitimacy while others said it only increased their concern about her safety. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC SportsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's tennis community reacts to missing Chinese player Peng Shuai China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Statement attributed to Chinese tennis player raises concerns about her safety, pro tour CEO says Tennis, sex and politics converge in China's latest #MeToo scandal Former world No. 1 doubles player accuses Chinese Communist Party official of sexual assault Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now