Wellness - CBC Life Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch life CBC Life Shows Food Style Home Currently Selected: Wellness Culture Work & Money Pets Giveaways & Submissions Video Travel More Wellness - CBC Life Loaded Wellness - CBC Life Featured Content Running outside this winter? Experts share hot tips for cool temps Advice on how to dress, getting a proper warm-up, adapting your route and more. Wellness |November 27, 2020| The Dose Here's what's safe this fall when it comes to indoor activities Navigating safety and etiquette can be complex during this ‘transition phase,’ experts say. Wellness |November 15 How to change your fitness routine to stay strong and mobile as you age This professor of biomechanics shares tips he swears by himself. Clifton Mark Wellness |February 21, 2020| The Dose Why tapping into your 5 senses with a walk in the woods can counter climate anxiety Counsellors and nature offer ways to cope with eco-anxiety. Wellness |November 8 New to trail running? Follow these tips to get the most out of the activity Janet Ho Wellness |October 22| Burnout is real and here's how to handle it, according to experts RJ Skinner Wellness |November 4, 2019| CBC News Why doctors are so worried about pregnant people getting COVID-19 Wellness |November 5 Hobbies to relax you on rough days — and how to get into them Janet Ho Wellness |October 8, 2020| CBC Ottawa How a stabbing victim used climbing to cope with PTSD Wellness |November 2 Surya namaskar: How to do this warming yoga practice to connect to the rhythm and energy of the sun Nicole Mahabir Wellness |March 17| CBC Nova Scotia These therapy goats are changing people's lives Pets |October 27 A week's worth of no-equipment workouts for getting stronger from home Chloe Alleyne Wellness |January 13| CBC News Marketplace Illegal, untested CBD products are everywhere and could be putting you at risk Wellness |October 22 CBC New Brunswick Worried about flu season, vaccines and those breakthrough cases? Your questions answered Wellness |October 20 The Dose 6 overlooked risks of falls for seniors and how to prevent them Wellness |October 19 The Dose What we know about kids and COVID-19 vaccines Wellness |October 15 Creator Network How does identity impact mental health? This new digital series explores the question Life Video |October 8| CBC News Health Still worried about getting a vaccine for COVID-19? Here's how to understand the rare, but real, risks Wellness |October 12 CBC News Instagram fuels both body-image issues and social connections, teen girls say Wellness |October 7 Podcast News 'There's no law in biology that says living things need to age': Keith McArthur on anti-aging research Wellness |October 4 CBC News Health What Canadians can expect from COVID-19 this fall and winter Wellness |October 1 CBC Radio Ideas Why these women say it's time to embrace fat bodies Wellness |September 24 Post-work decompression techniques for busy people Nicole Mahabir Wellness |January 14, 2019 The Dose Viruses limited by COVID-19 restrictions are coming back strong this fall, experts say Wellness |September 23 How to be happier by consuming less Clifton Mark Wellness |January 28, 2020|Load More Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now