Why it's not just your brain that makes you smart Check out what’s new and popular in the world of CBC audio! Having trouble viewing this email? View in browser   Tapestry: Why it's not just your brain that makes you smart Intelligence is the domain of the mind, that much is obvious. What isn't obvious is what makes up the mind. Most people will say the brain, and there are hundreds of books that will endorse this. Science journalist Annie Murphy Paul, author of The Extended Mind, wants to dispel us of our brain fixation. It's not that the brain isn't important, or even critical, but it isn't acting alone. Paul explores how intelligence is tied to the rest of our bodies, to our circumstances and the company we keep.   Listen Now     New Podcast: White Hot Hate   A violent, white supremacist ideology is spreading around the world, with believers trying to create chaos, in order to seize control. When recruitment posters for a group calling itself The Base start to appear in Manitoba, Winnipeg Free Press journalist Ryan Thorpe decides to go undercover...and infiltrate. Ryan meets with a Canadian Armed Forces reservist trying to establish a local neo-Nazi cell, and discovers that he is planning attacks and destruction abroad. This six-part series follows the extraordinary case through Ryan’s perspective as an infiltrator - while host Michelle Shephard, a veteran national security journalist, explores the rise of white supremacist accelerationism.   Listen Now     The Intro: Mighloe  CBC Music is launching season 2 of The Intro, a bi-weekly feature bringing essential emerging Canadian talent to the world with a brand new look, host and crop of artists.  On this episode meet Mighloe, the alter ego of Mariah Wheeler, a rising Pickering, Ont. singer who channels stories of heartbreak into R&B anthems. Just five years into her career, Wheeler's voice is untethered to a time or era, channelling the classic and contemporary sounds of everyone from Janis Joplin to Amy Winehouse.   Listen Now     Q Omar El Akkad reflects on winning $100K Scotiabank Giller Prize Listen Now     CROSS COUNTRY CHECKUP  Rick Mercer reflects on poking fun at politicians, 'cancel culture' — and Googling how to write a memoir Listen Now     AS IT HAPPENS  How a Missouri woman discovered her mom was one of Vietnam's first rock stars Listen Now Share this newsletter or subscribe if this was forwarded to you. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE THESE NEWSLETTERS   From personal recommendations to exciting industry news, CBC Podcasts brings you the latest and greatest content from the world of podcasting, every two weeks. Subscribe now Get the CBC Radio newsletter. We'll send you a weekly roundup of the best CBC Radio programming every Friday. Subscribe now Follow us View in browser Preferences Feedback Unsubscribe Canadian Broadcasting Corporation 250 Front St. W, Toronto, Ontario M5V 3G5, Canada cbc.radio-canada.ca | radio-canada.ca | cbc.ca   Get this newsletter delivered to you Subscribe Hide