Why fighting apartheid with music might be Steven Van Zandt's proudest moment | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Why fighting apartheid with music might be Steven Van Zandt's proudest moment | CBC Radio Loaded The Current Why fighting apartheid with music might be Steven Van Zandt's proudest moment Steven Van Zandt is an accomplished singer, songwriter and producer who worked with Bruce Springsteen. He's even starred in The Sopranos. But those great accomplishments pale to what might be his proudest achievement: fighting apartheid in South Africa. Social Sharing It’s not often you think about bringing down a government, says singer who performed with Bruce Springsteen CBC Radio · Posted: Nov 19, 2021 3:29 PM ET | Last Updated: November 19 Musician and activist Steven Van Zandt says his new memoir, Unrequited Infatuations, is not the 'typical rock biography.' (Mike Coppola/Getty Images for Little Kids Rock) comments The Current24:54Steven Van Zandt on his political awakening and fighting apartheid Read Story Transcript Steven Van Zandt sees himself as many things. He's an accomplished singer, songwriter, and producer who's been widely recognized for his musical achievements. He also has acting credits, most famously as Silvio Dante in The Sopranos. But it wasn't until he was asked a question by a young German kid in 1980 that he saw himself as something else: an American. "He stopped me in the park and he says, 'Tell me something: why are you putting missiles in our country?' And I really had no idea what he was talking [about]," he told The Current's Matt Galloway. Van Zandt, right, and Bruce Springsteen perform in 2012. Van Zandt was a part of the Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band when he had his political awakening in 1980. (Rick Diamond/Getty Images) Van Zandt was on tour in western Europe with Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band. At the time, Van Zandt wasn't interested in politics. But the question bugged him for days.  "I finally came to the conclusion … 'This kid is not looking at me like a guitar player or a factory worker or a Republican or a Democrat. He's looking at me as an American,'" he said. "And I'm embarrassed to say it had never even occurred to me before." That realization spurred Van Zandt to do some research. He bought every book he could find about U.S. foreign policy post-World War II, and studied the works of scholars like Noam Chomsky. It was a political awakening for the then-30-year-old. "I [wondered] what else I'm doing. I [wondered] what other obligations and responsibilities I have as a citizen of America,'" he said. He details that journey in his new memoir, Unrequited Infatuations. Fighting bullies That summer, Van Zandt was approached by EMI-America with a record deal. It led to the creation of his on-and-off group known as Little Steven and the Disciples of Soul.  At the time, Van Zandt had never had a career as a solo artist or as the lead in a band. But it allowed the musician to have a strong say in how much of his newfound political awakening was going to be implemented into his art. WATCH: Why Steve Van Zandt prefers playing in bands instead of going solo Bands are about friendship, family & community: Steven Van Zandt 3 days ago 3:12American singer-songwriter Steven Van Zandt explains to The Current host Matt Galloway why he prefers playing in bands as opposed to playing solo. His new memoir Unrequited Infatuations is out now. 3:12 Each of Van Zandt's first five albums tackled a section of a five-part political concept cycle: the individual, the family, the state, the economy and religion. The general theme of his 1984 album, Voice of America, was opposition to American foreign policy in the Ronald Reagan era. "I hate bullies, always have. So I'm kind of attracted to fighting them wherever possible," he said. Bringing down an apartheid government One of Van Zandt's proudest fights was against apartheid in South Africa. "I had made two trips to South Africa because I was doing research," he said. "And at that point, I was about to transform from an artist-journalist … into an artist-journalist-activist." On his second trip, Van Zandt visited the township of Soweto, a largely Black part of the country. When Van Zandt arrived, he found the area blockaded by the military — and protests happening within the township's walls. Those scenes, along with the interviews he conducted with Black South Africans and the liberation movement known as the Azanian People's Organisation, encouraged Van Zandt to help the oppressed people take down the regime. "It's not very often you sit down and say, 'OK, how can I bring down a government?'" he said. You never saw oil companies there, you never saw car companies helping anybody," he said. "It was always us.-Steve Van Zandt Though Van Zandt couldn't get involved militarily, he did find a way to contribute to the resistance through music: by tackling the Sun City Resort. In the December 1980, the United Nations imposed a cultural boycott on South Africa. This boycott called on artists, academics, philosophers and cultural practitioners to refuse to participate in any activities in the country. To circumvent the boycott, the regime declared certain spots as separate countries unrecognized by the international communities. Regime officials or independent businessmen overpaid artists to perform in those areas, according to Van Zandt. One of those spots was the Sun City Resort in the Bophuthatswana territory. The venue played hosts to notable artists during the boycott, including Frank Sinatra, Elton John and Queen. Meanwhile, the apartheid regime forced Black South Africans into these non-existent countries under the guise of returning them to their tribal lands, and then brought them back as "immigrant labour," according to Van Zandt. It was "a brilliantly evil scheme," he said. Van Zandt chose the resort as the subject for his own artistic boycott. He turned to the music-industry activist group Artists United Against Apartheid to produce the song Sun City in 1985, which exposed what was going on in the resort. Forty-nine recording artists collaborated on the song, including big names like Springsteen, U2 and Bob Dylan. They also pledged to never perform at the resort.  But for Van Zandt, it was never about collaborating with as many big-name artists as possible. "The people we chose to be on Sun City were not because they were most famous," he said. "[It's] because of what they were saying with their work, and were engaged in some kind of social activity, social consciousness or political consciousness." The song was modestly successful. But more importantly, Van Zandt believes it played a key role in informing Americans about what was going on inside the apartheid country's borders. I don't think we'll ever see such a total success again in our lifetime. By doing so, Van Zandt hoped American politicians would be swayed to go against any veto made by then-U.S. President Ronald Reagan regarding an economic sanctions bill. The plan seemingly worked. In 1986, after Reagan vetoed a bill to impose sanctions on South Africa, Congress overruled the veto. It marked the first time American Congress had overridden a presidential foreign policy veto. "In this case, it had the ultimate impact," Van Zandt said. "I don't think we'll ever see such a total success again in our lifetime." The power of music Van Zandt says his new memoir Unrequited Infatuations "is not a typical rock biography." "I wanted the book to be like a detective novel; like a Dan Brown book, where you don't know what's coming next," he said. WATCH: Performing live is the "fun part of life": Van Zandt. Steven Van Zandt on the fun side of performing live 3 days ago 2:40Some people might get stage fright when they perform live for tens of thousands of people. But singer-songwriter Steven Van Zandt says performing live is the "fun part of life." 2:40 Van Zandt said he's proud of his activist work, and of the work other artists in the entertainment industry do to address social issues and call for change. He believes this is the true message of art — and why it's powerful enough to bring down regimes. "You never saw oil companies there, never saw car companies helping anybody," he said. "It was always us." Written by Mouhamad Rachini. Produced by Howard Goldenthal. More from this episode Friday November 19, 2021 Full Transcript FULL EPISODE: The Current for Nov. 19, 2021 Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now