Why are mosquitoes larger in spring than in the fall? | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Why are mosquitoes larger in spring than in the fall? | CBC Radio Loaded Quirks & Quarks Why are mosquitoes larger in spring than in the fall? Insects that develop in cold temperatures are frequently larger. Social Sharing Insects that develop in cold temperatures are frequently larger CBC Radio · Posted: Nov 19, 2021 6:29 PM ET | Last Updated: November 19 Insects tend to grow larger when they develop at lower temperatures, according to Spencer Monckton, an entomologist at York University, (corlaffra / Shutterstock) comments Quirks and Quarks1:55Why are mosquitos larger in the spring than in the fall? This week's question comes from Hugh Campbell in Tobermory, Ont. He asks:  Why are mosquitoes bigger in the spring and quite a bit smaller in the fall? Spencer Monckton, a PhD candidate and entomologist at York University said the answer mainly has to do with temperature. It's a well-documented pattern that insects tend to grow larger when they develop at lower temperatures. This is known as the temperature-size rule, and there have been all sorts of reasons put forward to explain it. Generally these fall along two lines of reasoning. First is that colder temperatures mean insects develop more slowly, and therefore reach a larger body size by the time they're mature. Second, a larger body size can be more advantageous at colder temperatures, because larger insects are less likely to succumb to cold. In the case of mosquitoes, a larger body size probably also means being able to take larger meals, and to last longer from one meal to the next. As the days get warmer, subsequent generations of mosquitoes will tend to be smaller, either because they develop more quickly, because a larger body size is no longer worth the investment, or some combination of those factors. The short answer is, if you notice that the mosquitoes are larger in the spring, or in more northern areas, it's likely because they developed in colder temperatures.   More from this episode Scientists are trying to find out why some people don't get COVID-19 Trapping light earns physicist Sajeev John Canada's most prestigious science prize Glitter comes in many colours, but these scientists are making a green alternative NASA is smashing a spacecraft into an asteroid to test a planetary defence system Why 'Useful Delusions' can sometimes make us vulnerable to misinformation FULL EPISODE: Nov 20: Finding the COVID resistors, Herzberg gold medal winner, green glitter and more… Related Stories QUIRKS AND QUARKS Why we're fighting mosquito-borne diseases - with more mosquitoes Can we avoid an 'insect apocalypse' with a new appreciation for creepy-crawlies? Flies Thrive on Freeze-Free Fat Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now