Windsor mom ’overwhelmed with joy’ after reuniting with kids abducted by their father in 2019 | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Home Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home Society Windsor mom ’overwhelmed with joy’ after reuniting with kids abducted by their father in 2019 ‘I’m so happy that they’re home,’ Khawla Khalifa says Khawla Khalifa says her kids Dina, 7, and Fawzi, 10, arrived at Toronto's Pearson Airport on Sunday night. Photo:  (Stacey Janzer/CBC) RCI Posted: November 9, 2021 4:18 PM A Windsor, Ont., woman has been reunited with two of her children, two years after they were abducted by their father and taken to Lebanon. Khawla Khalifa said Dina, 7, and Fawzi, 10, arrived at Toronto's Pearson Airport on Sunday night. It's indescribable. It's something I've been dreaming about, you know, for the past two and a half years, and I can't even explain with words, Khalifa said.   I'm overwhelmed with joy. I'm so happy that they're home, they're home with us. In 2019, Achraf Zeidan took his two children to Lebanon, despite the fact that he was not to leave Essex County with them. A court had granted custody to his ex-wife Khawla Khalifa. The youngest child, Zein Eldin, stayed with Khalifa. Earlier this year, Khalifa sued Zeidan, members of his family and Egyptair for $10 million for their alleged roles in the abduction of the two children in 2019. The claims in the lawsuit have not been proved in court. On Monday, Khalifa said the children were returned to her under an agreement reached with the parties. We were able to come to an agreement with the parties and the outcome of that was the kids coming home [on Sunday], she said. The lawsuit with Egyptair is ongoing. Zedian signed an agreement in August. It's been a roller coaster since then, Khalifa said. 'They're happy to be home' She said Global Affairs Canada was instrumental in arranging travel documents and making travel arrangements for the return of the kids, who she said will need time to adjust. They're happy to be home. They're going to need some time to adjust and we're going to need some time to adjust as well but, you know, I don't doubt their resilience at all, she said. WATCH | Khawla Khalifa talks about the 24 hours she's had with all her children: Début du widget Widget. Passer le widget ? Fin du widget Widget. Retourner au début du widget ? Her mother reminded her of the many things she has to do for her children now that they're back, including renewing their health cards. Khalifa's daughter Dina has a brain tumour and Khalifa doesn't know if she had any medical help while she was in Lebanon.  So there's a lot of work, but definitely most of my time is just going to be [spent] ... just being with them. That's all I could ask for, Khalifa said. They've been through something that I don't think anybody could understand. We'll get through this together.... I told my son today, 'We have the rest of our lives to work through this.' The only way now is forward, so we're going to work on that and we'll take it day by day. Windsor woman launches multi-million dollar lawsuit to get her children back (new window) Windsor, Ont. mother feels helpless in parental child abduction (new window) CBC News  Consult the complete audio offer Latest news Beginning of list of 13 items. Skip list? Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting Nov. 30 Fox Hill Cheese pleads guilty to immigration charges As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the country Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto sector Federal health research funding agency cuts ties with Carrie Bourassa, who falsely claimed Indigenous ancestry RCMP wants to restart surplus vehicle sales after program was halted by gun massacre Health Canada approves Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine for children Ontario condo developer suddenly cancels years-long sales deal — unless buyers pay $100K more Why are the B.C. floods so bad? Blame the wildfires, at least in part I’m an athlete, and I happen to wear a hijab. Get over it Hate robocallers? CRTC says telcos have until the end of the month to help you ID them Snowfall creates piles of opportunity for refugees eager to work End of list of 13 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines   Ottawa confirms it will nix COVID-19 test for Canadians taking short trips, starting …  Starting on Nov. 30, fully vaccinated Canadians taking short trips abroad will no longer need proof of a … 2 days agoPolitics   The U.S. may implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics. Canada should …  Biden says diplomatic boycott is something his government is 'considering'. 2 days agoPolitics   As Canada readies to vaccinate kids aged 5-11, a look at immunization across the …  Do kids get vaccinated in school? What is 'mature minor' consent? 2 days agoHealth   Military dispatched to B.C. to help clean up and rebuild after historic floods  Abbotsford mayor estimates price tag for fixing damaged infrastructure in city could reach $1 billion 2 days agoSociety   After talks in D.C., Trudeau says he’s still concerned about threats to Canada’s auto …  Experts say U.S. tax credit for American-made electric vehicles would devastate Canadian car production 2 days agoInternational RCI Newsletter in English 12,000 people receive our newsletter every day. Subscribe to our newsletter in the language(s) of your choice. Email Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at :info@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2021