Windsor police lay murder charge after man dies following car crash | CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More Windsor police lay murder charge after man dies following car crash | CBC News Loaded Windsor Windsor police lay murder charge after man dies following car crash Police say they responded to the crash, which involved multiple vehicles, at 4 a.m. on Thursday around University Avenue West and Dougall Avenue. Social Sharing The man who died was involved in an altercation earlier in the evening, say police CBC News · Posted: Nov 21, 2021 1:13 PM ET | Last Updated: 3 hours ago Windsor police responded to the scene at around 4 a.m. Thursday. (Dan Taekema/CBC) Windsor police say the death of a man following an early morning car crash last week is a homicide. Police say they responded to the crash, which involved multiple vehicles, at 4 a.m. on Thursday around University Avenue West and Dougall Avenue. The driver of a grey Dodge Journey, a 44-year-old man from Windsor, was transported to hospital and pronounced dead. As a result of their investigation, police say they have determined that the man was involved in an altercation with another man before the collision took place.  Police have arrested a 33-year-old man and charged him with first degree murder and various firearm offences.  Police are asking anyone with surveillance camera or dash cam footage between 3:30and 4:30 a.m. from the area of Wyandotte Street between Dougall Avenue and Moy Avenue to check their tapes. Anyone with information is being asked to contact the Windsor major crimes unit or Crime Stoppers. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now