Woman whose car was struck by landslide in B.C. can barely believe she survived | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch radio CBC Radio Top Stories Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE More Woman whose car was struck by landslide in B.C. can barely believe she survived | CBC Radio Loaded As It Happens Woman whose car was struck by landslide in B.C. can barely believe she survived Chelsey Hughes hasn’t been sleeping well since she was rescued from a landslide in southern B.C. on Sunday. Social Sharing ‘I'm pretty, just, stunned that I walked away with a few minor bumps and bruises’ CBC Radio · Posted: Nov 17, 2021 5:15 PM ET | Last Updated: 1 hour ago Chelsey Hughes, left, holds up her car keys and smiles from her hospital bed after a landslide on B.C.'s Highway 7, right, sent her careening into a swamp one kilometre off the road. (Submitted by Chelsey Hughes, Julia Murray) comments 7:13Woman whose car was struck by landslide in B.C. can barely believe she survived Story Transcript Chelsey Hughes hasn't been sleeping well since she was rescued from a landslide in southern B.C. on Sunday. "Last night, I just couldn't sleep at all. I was replaying that moment in my head," Hughes, a yoga instructor in Surrey, B.C., told As It Happens host Carol Off. "I can hear the sound of it hitting my car. I can hear the roar of being pushed through. And I think I was screaming, but I don't really remember. I must have been." British Columbia has declared a state of emergency as it continues to deal with flooding, road closures and landslides after torrential rains battered the province over the weekend and Monday. Scientists told CBC News this kind of extreme rain and flooding is becoming commonplace due to climate change.  'A wall of mud and trees' Hughes was driving home to Surrey from a friend's place in the Okanagan on Sunday night. The rain was pounding and a road closure diverted her through Highway 7 between Hope and Agassiz. That's where she was when she spotted a falling tree out of the corner of her eye. "I barely had time to really process it, and my car was just hit from the right side with a wall of mud and trees," she said. The landslide sent her and several other vehicles careening into a cold, wet swamp, about a kilometre off the road.  "I had stopped and I took a deep breath and I realized I heard people behind me screaming. At first I thought that they were [there to] help, so I was calling out and trying to get their attention, honking my horn," she said. "Then I heard them trying to call 911, and then I realized that they were in the exact same situation that I was in." An aerial view shows the damage on Highway 7 near Agassiz, B.C., on Nov. 15, 2021. (B.C. Hydro/Reuters) When she reached toward the floor to find her phone, she found herself elbow-deep in cold water. "So I realized that I'm sitting in water right now and my car is filling up, and I don't know how quickly it was filling up," she said. Luckily, Hughes had a backup — an old iPhone she kept in her car just for playing music, but which was still capable of dialling 911. The dispatcher told her to get out of the car if it was safe to do so.  "I looked up and my sunroof had been smashed. There was actually a tree on top of my car. And I grabbed onto the trunk of the tree and I was able to shimmy between my sunroof and the tree, and I got out," she said. "Then I was on top of my car." Boat-riding cowboy wrangles horses to safety through B.C. floodwaters Q&AB.C. woman describes sleepless night on the highway, trapped between landslides From there, she could see three other cars trapped in the same swampy area as hers, and a long stretch of vehicles stopped dead on the highway in the distance. About 275 people were stranded on that stretch of highway overnight Sunday, trapped between two landslides. The rain was still coming down hard and cold, and Hughes was wearing nothing but a T-shirt, soccer pants, a cotton hoodie and a pair of moccasins. The 911 dispatcher couldn't tell her how long she would have to wait for help.  "I remember becoming vaguely aware of the time around 8 p.m., and I remember thinking, 'OK, they're going to be here by 10.' And then 10 o'clock rolls around and I'm thinking, 'OK, they're going to be here by midnight.' And then midnight comes, and they're not there yet." A helicopter arrives to rescue motorists trapped between two mudslides along Highway 7 near Agassiz, B.C., on Monday. (Submitted by Mike Stronach) She took long, deep breaths in an effort to keep from convulsing and seizing from the cold. She tried to channel her inner Wim Hof, a Dutch extreme athlete known for his ability to withstand freezing temperatures. "I'm sitting there trying to overcome my body because I was so cold. I was trying to overcome my environment because I was on top of my car in the middle of this swamp, and there was nothing that I could do about it. And I was trying to overcome time, because I did not know how long I was going to be sitting there," she said. Finally, at about 12:45 a.m., first responders arrived. "Oh my god, when we saw the search-and-rescue lights, it was like a breath of fresh air," she said. There were no trees left standing upon which rescuers could hoist ropes, so she and the others had to wade through the cold muck to get to dry land. Once they were clear of the swamp, the first responders gave them dry clothes, blankets and water. "They took great care of us," Hughes said. "They were very, very kind." I keep saying that it doesn't feel like I'm talking about what happened to me, but rather I'm just telling a story about something that has happened to somebody else.- Chelsey Hughes, landslide survivor  After a night in the hospital, Hughes is now home safe. She survived the ordeal with nothing but bruises and scratches, mostly from when she climbed through her broken sunroof. "I'm pretty, just, stunned that I walked away with a few minor bumps and bruises," she said.  "I keep saying that it doesn't feel like I'm talking about what happened to me, but rather I'm just telling a story about something that has happened to somebody else." But not everyone else in B.C. has been so lucky. Authorities confirmed Tuesday that one woman died in a landslide on Highway 99 near Lillooet. RCMP have received reports of at least two other people who are still missing. "It's just so tragic to think that these people, they have families, they have people that are looking for them, and that very easily could have been any one of us," Hughes said. "I am just in disbelief. My heart goes out to everybody who has been impacted by the floods, by the landslides, by the shortages of food." Written by Sheena Goodyear. Interview produced by Chris Harbord.  More from this episode British poet Alexander Pope made a mythical, mineral-filled grotto — and it's getting restored Researchers identify 102 children who died at Nebraska residential school  FULL EPISODE: As It Happens: The Wednesday Edition Related Stories Historic flooding in southern B.C., by the numbers B.C. declares state of emergency in wake of devastating flooding, mudslides Video B.C.'s Fraser Valley is no stranger to floods. Experts warn extreme weather is likely to become more common Swimmers, waders and looky-loo boaters warned to stay out of toxic floodwaters Trudeau pledges to stand by B.C. now and through post-flood recovery Faced with repeated crises, small municipalities confront climate mitigation challenges Video 'The river just took it under': Family can only watch as flood sweeps away home in Merritt, B.C. Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Become a CBC Member Join the conversation  Create account Already have an account? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now