World - CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu SearchSearch Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch news Top Stories Local COVID-19 Opinion Currently Selected: World Canada Politics Indigenous The National Business Health Entertainment Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News More World - CBC News Loaded World - CBC News Featured Content New Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai tells Olympic officials she's 'safe' in Beijing home Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai has taken part in a 30-minute video call from Beijing with International Olympic Committee officials and told them she was safe and well, the Olympic body said on Sunday. Sports -Tennis |30 minutes ago Sudan's military leaders reinstate deposed PM, say political detainees will be released World |4 hours ago U.K. taxi driver calls it a 'miracle' he survived passenger's bomb blast World |1 hour ago New U.S. admiral warns of China threat and urges allies to work and train more closely Murray Brewster Politics |6 hours ago| Royal Fascinator Passing the royal baton: How more duties are gradually shifting from the Queen to the younger generations Recent events involving senior members of the Royal Family offer the latest insight into a gradual transition unfolding within the House of Windsor. Janet Davison World |12 hours ago| THE LATEST Coronavirus: What's happening in Canada and around the world on Sunday Ten of thousands of people demonstrated through central Brussels on Sunday to protest reinforced COVID-19 restrictions imposed by the Belgian government to counter the latest spike in coronavirus cases. World |1 hour ago| Kyle Rittenhouse's acquittal for shootings based on self-defence isn't surprising: legal experts The acquittal of Kyle Rittenhouse on all charges is not a surprise to some Wisconsin legal analysts who say the prosecution always faced a difficult challenge of arguing the teen did not fire his gun in self-defence. Mark Gollom World |November 20 17 dead, dozens missing after heavy rains in India's Andhra Pradesh state World |November 20 Video, photos of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted online Joe Mcdonald Sports -Tennis |November 21| The metaverse is already here. But the dazzling new world Facebook promises is a long way off Radio -The Sunday Magazine |November 20 Tens of thousands protest COVID-19 restrictions, vaccine requirements across Europe World |November 20 Video White House official says U.S. open to discussions with Canada about proposed EV incentive Politics |November 20| Elijah McClain's family to receive $15M settlement over 2019 death after police stop World |November 20 Red Cross forced to pay Afghan doctors, nurses with bags of cash in wake of U.S. withdrawal World |November 19 Kyle Rittenhouse found not guilty on all counts in trial over Kenosha shootings World |November 20 Analysis Trudeau goes to Washington, and finds that Canada is mostly an afterthought for the U.S. November 19 India to repeal controversial farm laws that sparked massive protests Sheikh Saaliq World |November 19| THE LATEST Coronavirus: What's happening in Canada and around the world on Nov. 20 World |10 hours ago| Biden undergoes colonoscopy, briefly transferring power to VP Kamala Harris World |November 20 China 'not aware' of issue surrounding missing tennis player Peng Shuai Sports -Tennis |November 20 Judge exonerates 2 men for 1965 murder of Malcolm X World |November 19 THE LATEST U.S. opens booster shots to all adults, urges those 50-plus to seek the extra protection World |November 20 U.S. congressman: Here's why America is more successful than Canada Alexander Panetta World |November 18 Concerns mount over China tennis star's safety after raising sexual assault allegation Sports -Tennis |November 19 Hundreds of Iraqis fly home from Belarus, abandoning effort to reach EU World |November 18 No injuries reported after Canadian frigate catches fire at sea Murray Brewster Politics |November 18| THE LATEST Germans are warned that Christmas could be terrible because of high COVID-19 rates World |November 19| U.K. to hold public inquiry into Novichok poisoning death World |November 18Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Radio Canada International Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now